More frequent side effects include: dental disease, edema, myalgia, pharyngitis, decreased vitamin b12 serum concentrate, and weight gain.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Metformin-pioglitazone:Common (1% to 10%): EdemaPioglitazone:Very common (10% or more): Edema (26.7%)Common (1% to 10%): Cardiac failure, chest pain
Thiazolidinediones, including pioglitazone can cause dose-related fluid retention which can cause or exacerbate congestive heart failure in some patients.  Combination with insulin and use in patients with NYHA Class I and II congestive heart failure may increase risk.
Metformin-pioglitazone:Very common (10% or more): Abdominal pain, diarrhea, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): FlatulenceMetformin:Very common (10% or more): Abdominal pain, diarrhea, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting
Gastrointestinal events occur most frequently during initiation of therapy and resolve spontaneously in most cases.
Metformin-pioglitazone Common (1% to 10%): AnemiaVery rare (less than 0.01%): Vitamin B12 absorption decreased, lactic acidosisMetformin: Very rare (less than 0.01%): Vitamin B12 absorption decreased, lactic acidosis
Metformin-pioglitazone:Common (1% to 10%): Weight increasedPioglitazone:Very common (10% or more): Hypoglycemia (27.3%)Common (1% to 10%): Weight gain
Mean weight increase in patients receiving pioglitazone monotherapy for 1 year was 2 to 3 kg.  In combination with metformin, mean weight increase over 1 year was 1.5 kg.  The mechanism of weight gain is unclear, but probably involves a combination of fluid retention and fat accumulation.
Metformin-pioglitazoneCommon (1% to 10%): Upper respiratory infectionUncommon (0.1% to 1%): SinusitisPioglitazone:Common (1% to 10%): Upper respiratory infection, pharyngitisUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Sinusitis
Metformin-pioglitazone:Common (1% to 10%): Hypoesthesia, headache, taste disturbance Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): InsomniaMetformin: Common (1% to 10%): Taste disturbance Pioglitazone:Common (1% to 10%): Hypoesthesia, headache
Visual disturbances have been reported early in treatment and may be related to changes in blood glucose due to temporary alteration in the turgidity and refractive index of the lens.  Macular edema has been reported postmarketing in patients taking pioglitazone or another thiazolidinedione.  Some patients presented with blurred vision or decreased visual acuity, although some were diagnosed on routine ophthalmologic examination.  Most patients had peripheral edema at time of diagnosis.  Some patients improved with drug discontinuation.
Metformin-pioglitazone:Common (1% to 10%): Visual disturbances Postmarketing reports: Macular edemaPioglitazone: Common (1% to 10%): Visual disturbances Frequency not reported: Macular edema
Metformin-pioglitazone:Very rare (less than 0.01%): Erythema, pruritus, urticaria Metformin: Very rare (less than 0.01%): Erythema, pruritus, urticaria
Common (1% to 10%): Erectile dysfunction
The most commonly reported adverse events included upper respiratory tract infection, edema, diarrhea, headache, and weight gain.
There have been postmarketing reports of hepatic failure, including fatalities, in patients taking pioglitazone.  The reports contain insufficient information to establish causality.
Metformin-pioglitazone:Frequency not reported: Hepatitis, alanine aminotransferase increased, abnormal liver function testsMetformin: Frequency not reported: Hepatitis, abnormal liver function tests Pioglitazone:Frequency not reported: Alanine aminotransferase increasedPostmarketing reports: Hepatic failure
In pooled analysis of bone fractures in 8100 patients receiving pioglitazone and 7400 receiving comparator treatment; a higher rate of fractures was observed in women receiving pioglitazone (2.6% versus 1.7%).  Some epidemiologic studies have suggested a similarly increased risk of fracture in men.
Metformin-pioglitazone:Common (1% to 10%): Bone fracture, arthralgiaPioglitazone:Common (1% to 10%): Bone fracture, myalgia, extremity pain, back painUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Serum creatine phosphokinase elevations
The US FDA has released results of its review of pioglitazone and bladder cancer and concluded that the data suggests use of this drug may be linked to an increase risk of bladder cancer.  A 10-year prospective cohort study in diabetic patients performed by the manufacturer (n=158,918 never users; n=34,181 ever users) identified 1075 newly diagnosed cases of bladder cancer in never users and 186 cases in ever users.  The fully adjusted hazard ratio (HR) showed pioglitazone use was not associated with an increased risk (HR 1.06 (95% confidence interval 0.89 to 1.26).  And while a modest trend towards higher risk with increasing duration was observed, this trend was not statistically significant.  Compared to the interim 5-year results, the 10-year results found weaker associations that were not statistically significant.  However, there are studies that have shown a statistically significant association between exposure to this drug and bladder cancer and an association between cumulative dose or cumulative duration of exposure and bladder cancer.  Overall, this drug may be associated with an increase in the risk of urinary bladder tumors, however there is insufficient data to determine whether this drug is a tumor promoter for urinary bladder tumors.
Metformin-pioglitazoneUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Bladder cancerPioglitazone:Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Bladder cancer
Common (1% to 10%): Hematuria
Metformin-pioglitazone:Postmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity and allergic reactions (anaphylaxis, angioedema, and urticaria)Pioglitazone: Postmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity and allergic reactions (anaphylaxis, angioedema, and urticaria)
Bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
difficult, burning, or painful urination
frequent urge to urinate
lower back or side pain
swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or lower legs
weight gain
Pain or swelling in the arms or legs without any injury
pale skin
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Abdominal or stomach discomfort
anxiety
blurred vision
chills
cold sweats
coma
confusion
cool, pale skin
decreased appetite
depression
diarrhea
dizziness
fast heartbeat
fast, shallow breathing
general feeling of discomfort
headache
increased hunger
muscle pain or cramping
nausea
nervousness
nightmares
seizures
shakiness
shortness of breath
sleepiness
slurred speech
Body aches or pain
cough
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
fever, sneezing, or sore throat
loss of voice
runny nose
stuffy nose