Generic Name: ketorolac ophthalmic
Applies to ketorolac ophthalmic: ophthalmic solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by ketorolac ophthalmic (the active ingredient contained in Acular PF). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking ketorolac ophthalmic:
Some of the side effects that can occur with ketorolac ophthalmic may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to ketorolac ophthalmic: ophthalmic solution
The most frequently reported side effects were transient stinging and burning on instillation.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Intraocular pressure increased, conjunctival hyperemia, conjunctival hemorrhage, corneal edema, ocular pain, tearing, vision blurred, corneal infiltrates, ocular edema, iritis, ocular inflammation, ocular irritation, superficial keratitis, superficial ocular infection, conjunctivitis, ocular pruritus, keratic precipitates, retinal hemorrhage, cystoid macular edema, eye trauma, ptosis, blepharitis, photophobia, corneal lesion, glaucomaUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Ulcerative keratitis, eye dryness, epiphora, corneal ulcerPostmarketing reports: Corneal erosion, corneal perforation, corneal thinning, corneal melt, epithelial breakdown[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Transient stinging (up to 40%), burning (up to 40%)Common (1% to 10%): Local allergic reaction[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Headache[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Bronchospasm, asthma exacerbated[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Hypersensitivity reaction[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Acular (ketorolac)." Allergan Inc, Irvine, CA. 
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
3. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
4. "Product Information. Acular LS (ketorolac ophthalmic)." Allergan Inc, Irvine, CA. 
5. "Product Information. Acuvail (ketorolac ophthalmic)." Allergan Inc, Irvine, CA. 
Not all side effects for Acular PF may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Itching, redness, tearing, or other sign of eye irritation not present before use of this medicine or becoming worse during use
redness of the clear part of the eye
sensitivity to light
swelling of the eye
tearing
throbbing pain


Blurred vision or other change in vision
eye irritation or redness


Stinging or burning of the eye when medicine is applied


Dry eyes
headache

