Generic Name: riociguat
Common side effects of Adempas include: dyspepsia, gastritis, and headache.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to riociguat: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by riociguat (the active ingredient contained in Adempas). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking riociguat:
Some of the side effects that can occur with riociguat may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to riociguat: oral tablet
Very common (10% or more): Hypotension (10%)Frequency not reported: Palpitations, peripheral edema[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Dyspepsia (21%), gastritis (21%), nausea (14%), diarrhea (12%), vomiting (10%)Common (1% to 10%): Gastroesophageal reflux disease, constipationFrequency not reported: Dysphagia, abdominal distention[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Anemia[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Headache (27%), dizziness (20%)[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Nasal congestion, epistaxis[Ref]
1. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
2. "Product Information. Adempas (riociguat)." Bayer Pharmaceutical Inc, West Haven, CT. 
Not all side effects for Adempas may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
nosebleeds
unusual tiredness or weakness


Abdominal or stomach pain or swelling
bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
bloody or black, tarry stools
bruising or purple areas on the skin
coughing or spitting up blood
decreased alertness
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
heavy non-menstrual vaginal bleeding
rapid weight gain
troubled breathing with exertion
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds


Diarrhea
headache
heartburn or indigestion
nausea or vomiting
stuffy nose


Difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)

