More frequently reported side effects include: increased intraocular pressure.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to aflibercept ophthalmic: intraocular solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by aflibercept ophthalmic. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking aflibercept ophthalmic, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with aflibercept ophthalmic may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to aflibercept ophthalmic: intraocular solution
Very common (10% or more): Conjunctival hemorrhage (28%), eye pain (13%), Common (1% to 10%): Cataract, vitreous floaters, corneal erosion, intraocular pressure increased, conjunctival hyperemia, ocular hyperemia, vitreous detachment, foreign body sensation in eyes, lacrimation increased, vision blurred, intraocular inflammation, retinal pigment epithelium tear, injection site hemorrhage, eyelid edema, corneal edema, retinal degeneration, cataract, cataract nuclear, cataract subcapsular, corneal abrasion, intraocular pressure increased, vitreous floatersUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Retinal detachment, retinal tear, endophthalmitis injection site pain, traumatic cataract[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Injection site pain[Ref]
Postmarketing reports:Common (1% to 10%): Arterial thromboembolic events (ATEs) (such as nonfatal stroke, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or vascular death)[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Hypersensitivity
1. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
3. "Product Information. Eylea (aflibercept ophthalmic)." Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc, Tarrytown, NY. 
Not all side effects for aflibercept ophthalmic may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Blindness
bloody eye
blurred vision
eye or eyelid redness
eye pain
seeing flashes, sparks of light, or a veil or curtain
seeing floating spots before the eyes
vision changes


Bleeding or pain at the injection site
swelling of the eyelid


Fast heartbeat
fever
headache
hives, itching, rash, or skin redness
hoarseness
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
swelling of the face, lips, hands, or feet
troubled breathing or swallowing


Pain in the chest, groin, or legs, especially the calves
severe, sudden headache
slurred speech
sudden loss of coordination
sudden, severe weakness or numbness in the arm or leg
sudden, unexplained shortness of breath


Feeling like something is in the eye
watery eyes

