Generic Name: anagrelide
Common side effects of Agrylin include: abdominal pain, dizziness, headache, nausea, and palpitations. Other side effects include: back pain, fever, tachycardia, vomiting, and anorexia.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to anagrelide: oral capsule
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by anagrelide (the active ingredient contained in Agrylin). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking anagrelide:
Some of the side effects that can occur with anagrelide may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to anagrelide: oral capsule
Very common (10% or more): Headache (43.5%), asthenia (23.1%), dizziness (15.4%), pain (15%)Common (1% to 10%): FeverFrequency not reported: Migraine, syncope, somnolence, confusion, insomnia, nervousness, amnesia[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Palpitations (26.1%)Common (1% to 10%): Chest pain, tachycardiaFrequency not reported: Arrhythmia, cardiovascular disease, angina pectoris, heart failure, postural hypotension, thrombosis, vasodilationPostmarketing reports: Torsades de pointes, ventricular tachycardia[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Diarrhea (25.7%), nausea (17.1%), abdominal pain (16.4%), flatulence (10.2%)Common (1% to 10%): Vomiting, anorexia, dyspepsia, constipation, gastritis, aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis, hemorrhage, eructation, dehydration[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Edema (20.6%)Common (1% to 10%): Peripheral edemaFrequency not reported: Tinnitus, flu symptoms, chills[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Anemia, thrombocytopenia, ecchymosis, lymphadenopathy[Ref]
Very rare (less than 0.01%): Cholestatic liver failureFrequency not reported: Elevated liver enzymes[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Back pain Frequency not reported: Arthralgia, myalgia, leg cramps[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Dyspnea (11.9%)Frequency not reported: Pharyngitis, cough, rhinitis, epistaxis, respiratory disease, sinusitis, pneumonia, bronchitis, pleural effusion, pulmonary hypertension, pulmonary infiltrates, asthma, allergic alveolitis[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Rash (including urticaria)Frequency not reported: Skin disease, alopecia, pruritus[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Photosensitivity, amblyopia, abnormal vision, visual field abnormality, diplopia[Ref]
A 30-year-old man developed erectile dysfunction after 2 months of treatment with anagrelide (the active ingredient contained in Agrylin) which disappeared 2 weeks after stopping the drug.  A definitive cause could not be determined.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Dysuria, hematuria[Ref]
Very rare (less than 0.01%): A 60-year-old woman developed shortness of breath, palpitations, and chest pain after 1 week of treatment leading to respiratory failure and intubation by week 5.  Patient recovered after treatment with methylprednisolone.Frequency not reported: Severe hypersensitivity pneumonitis[Ref]
The authors of the case report of severe hypersensitivity pneumonitis suggest that patients receiving anagrelide therapy, alone or in combination with hydroxyurea, may benefit from monitoring with serial chest X-rays, pulmonary function testing, and echocardiography to detect the development of cardiomyopathy or hypersensitivity pneumonitis.[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Tubulointerstitial nephritis.
Frequency not reported: Depression
1. "Product Information. Agrylin (anagrelide)." Roberts Pharmaceutical Corporation, Eatontown, NJ. 
2. Lin S,  Howell DN,  Tuttle-Newhall JE,  Heneghan MA "Cholestatic liver failure secondary to anagrelide." Am J Gastroenterol 98(9S) (2003): S153
3. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
4. Braester A,  Laver B "Anagrelide-induced erectile dysfunction." Ann Pharmacother 36 (2002): 1291
5. Raghavan M,  Mazer MA,  Brink DJ "Severe hypersensitivity pneumonitis associated with anagrelide." Ann Pharmacother 37 (2003): 1228-31
Not all side effects for Agrylin may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
body aches or pain
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chest pain
congestion
cough
difficult or labored breathing
dryness or soreness of the throat
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
fever
hoarseness
rapid weight gain
runny nose
tender, swollen glands in the neck
tightness in the chest
trouble with swallowing
voice changes


Anxiety
blurred vision
burning while urinating
chills
cold sweats
confusion
decreased urine output
dehydration
difficult or painful urination
dilated neck veins
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
extreme fatigue
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
irregular breathing
joint pain
large, flat, blue, or purplish patches in the skin
loss of appetite
muscle aches and pains
nausea or vomiting
noisy breathing
pale skin
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
severe pain or pressure in the chest or the jaw, neck, back, or arms
sudden severe headache or weakness
swollen, painful, or tender lymph glands in the neck, armpit, or groin
trouble sleeping
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
weight gain


Abdominal or stomach pain or tenderness
clay colored stools
dark urine
decreased appetite
dry cough
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
rapid breathing
skin rash or itching
yellow eyes or skin


Acid or sour stomach
back pain
belching
diarrhea
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
full feeling
general feeling of discomfort or illness
heartburn
hives or welts
indigestion
lack or loss of strength
pain
passing gas
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain


Burning feeling in the chest or stomach
change in vision
confusion
constipation
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
depression
difficulty with moving
double vision
hair loss or thinning of the hair
hearing loss
impaired vision
increased sensitivity of the skin to sunlight
leg cramps
loss of memory
muscle pain or stiffness
problems with memory
redness or other discoloration of the skin
seeing double
severe sunburn
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
stuffy nose
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
swollen joints

