More frequently reported side effects include: dizziness.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to alfuzosin: oral tablet extended release
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by alfuzosin. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking alfuzosin:
Some of the side effects that can occur with alfuzosin may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to alfuzosin: oral tablet extended release
Very common (10% or more): Dizziness (up to 27%), headache (up to 14%), fatigue (up to 14%)Common (1% to 10%): Syncope, painPostmarketing reports: Flushing[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Upper respiratory tract infection (up to 14%)Common (1% to 10%): Bronchitis, sinusitis, pharyngitisPostmarketing reports: Rhinitis[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Hypotension or postural hypotensionPostmarketing reports: Tachycardia, chest pain, angina pectoris in patients with preexisting coronary artery disease, atrial fibrillation[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Abdominal pain, dyspepsia, constipation, nauseaPostmarketing reports: Diarrhea[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Impotence Postmarketing reports: Priapism[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome (IFIS) has been observed in some patients undergoing phacoemulsification cataract surgery while being treated with alpha-1 blockers[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Hepatocellular and cholestatic liver injury (including cases with jaundice leading to drug discontinuation)[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Rash, pruritus, urticaria, angioedema, toxic epidermal necrolysis[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Thrombocytopenia
Postmarketing reports: Edema
1. Jardin A,  Bensadoun H,  Delauche-Cavallier MC,  Stalla-Bourdillon A,  Attali P "Long-term treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia with alfuzosin: a 24-30 month survey. BPHALF Group." Br J Urol 74 (1994): 579-84
2. "Product Information. Xatral (alfuzosin)." Sanofi-Synthelabo Canada Inc, Markham, ON. 
3. "Product Information. Uroxatral (alfuzosin)." sanofi-aventis , Bridgewater, NJ. 
4. Hansen BJ,  Nordling J,  Mensink HJ,  Walter S,  Meyhoff HH "Alfuzosin in the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia: effects on symptom scores, urinary flow rates and residual volume. A multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. ALFECH Study Group." Scand J Urol Nephrol Suppl 157 (1994): 169-76
5. Qazi HA,  Ananthakrishnan K,  Manikandan R,  Fordham MV "Stuttering priapism after ingestion of alfuzosin." Urology 68 (2006): 890.e5-6
6. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
7. Wang YS,  Tay YK,  Kwok C "Toxic epidermal necrolysis caused by alfuzosin, an alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonist." Arch Dermatol 142 (2006): 938
Not all side effects for alfuzosin may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Chest pain
chills
cold sweats
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position
fainting
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
painful or prolonged erection of the penis


Arm, back, or jaw pain
chest discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
nausea
shortness of breath
sweating
swelling


Dizziness


Abdominal or stomach pain
acid or sour stomach
belching
body aches or pain
congestion
cough
cough producing mucus
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
difficulty breathing
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
dryness or soreness of the throat
ear congestion
fever
headache
heartburn
hoarseness
inability to have or keep an erection
indigestion
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
loss of voice
nasal congestion
pain
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
sneezing
sore throat
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
stuffy or runny nose
tender, swollen glands in the neck
tightness in the chest
trouble with swallowing
unusual tiredness or weakness
voice changes
wheezing


Rash


Diarrhea
feeling of warmth
hives or welts
itching skin
redness of the skin
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest

