Applies to aliskiren: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by aliskiren. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking aliskiren:
Some of the side effects that can occur with aliskiren may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to aliskiren: oral tablet
Two cases of angioedema with respiratory symptoms were reported with aliskiren use in clinical studies, and two other cases of periorbital edema without respiratory symptoms were reported as possible angioedema and resulted in discontinuation.  The rate of angioedema cases in completed studies was 0.06%.  Twenty-six other cases of edema involving the face, hands, or whole body were reported with aliskiren use, including four which led to discontinuation.  In the placebo controlled studies, the incidence of edema involving the face, hands or whole body was 0.4% with aliskiren compared with 0.5% with placebo.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Angioedema (face, hands, and body) with or without respiratory symptomsPostmarketing reports: Angioedema[Ref]
In women and the elderly (65 years of age or older), increases in diarrhea rates were evident starting at a dose of 150 mg daily.  Diarrhea and other GI symptoms were typically mild and rarely led to discontinuation.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Diarrhea, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, gastroesophageal reflux (these side effects appear to be dose related)Postmarketing reports: Nausea, vomiting[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): RashRare (less than 0.1%): Angioedema (involving the face, hands, or whole body)Postmarketing reports: Severe cutaneous adverse reactions (including Stevens Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis)[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Elevated uric acid, gout, renal stonesPostmarketing reports: Peripheral edema, hyponatremia[Ref]
Episodes of tonic-clonic seizures were reported in two patients treated with aliskiren in the clinical trials.  One patient had predisposing causes for seizures and a negative electroencephalogram (EEG) and cerebral imaging following the seizures (the other patient's EEG and imaging results were not reported).  Aliskiren was discontinued and there was no rechallenge.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Headache, dizziness, fatigue, episodes of tonic-clonic seizures with loss of consciousness.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, cough[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Hypotension[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Small decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit Postmarketing reports: Increased blood creatinine[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Back pain
Rare (less than 0.1%): ParosmiaFrequency not reported: Tinnitus[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Tekturna (aliskiren)." Novartis Pharmaceuticals, East Hanover, NJ. 
2. Frampton JE,  Curran MP "Aliskiren: A Review of its Use in the Management of Hypertension." Drugs 67 (2007): 1767-1792
3. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
Not all side effects for aliskiren may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Body aches or pain
chills
cough
diarrhea
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
fever
headache
loss of voice
nasal congestion
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness


Ankle, knee, or great toe joint pain
blood in the urine
joint pain
joint stiffness or swelling
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of bladder control
loss of consciousness
lower back or side pain
nausea and vomiting
pain in the groin or genitals
sharp back pain just below the ribs
swelling of the feet or lower legs


Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
itching
joint or muscle pain
rapid weight gain
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
tingling of the hands or feet
unusual weight gain or loss


Acid or sour stomach
back pain
belching
dizziness
heartburn
indigestion
muscle aches
rash
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain

