Commonly reported side effects of alitretinoin topical include: pain, pruritus, and skin rash. Other side effects include: exfoliative dermatitis, disorder of integument, and skin edema.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to alitretinoin topical: topical gel/jelly
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by alitretinoin topical. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking alitretinoin topical, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some of the side effects that can occur with alitretinoin topical may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to alitretinoin topical: topical gel
The most frequently reported side effects occurred almost exclusively at the application site.  Dermal toxicity began as erythema, which could worsen and result in edema with continued use.  This toxicity may be treatment-limiting, with intense erythema, edema, and vesiculation.  Side effects were typically mild to moderate in severity and led to study withdrawal in 7% of patients.  During one study, severe local (application site) skin reactions were reported in about 10% of patients.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Rash (up to 77%), pain (34%), paresthesia (up to 22%), pruritus (up to 11%)Common (1% to 10%): Exfoliative dermatitis, skin disorder, edema[Ref]
Side effects occurred almost exclusively at the application site and have included application site rash (term includes erythema, scaling, irritation, redness, dermatitis), pain (term includes burning, pain), pruritus (term includes itching, pruritus), exfoliative dermatitis (term includes flaking, peeling, desquamation, exfoliation), skin disorder (term includes excoriation, cracking, scab, crusting, drainage, eschar, fissure, or oozing), paresthesia (term includes stinging, tingling), and edema (term includes edema, swelling, inflammation).[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Panretin (alitretinoin topical)." Ligand Pharmaceuticals, San Diego, CA. 
Not all side effects for alitretinoin topical may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Abrasion of skin
blisters on skin
burning pain
cracking, crusting, drainage, or oozing of the skin
groove in the skin
peeling of skin
severe rash
skin redness
sloughing of skin
swelling at the site of application


Stinging or tingling of skin


Itching
rash


Increased sensitivity to the sun

