Generic Name: fexofenadine
Applies to fexofenadine: oral capsule, oral suspension, oral tablet, oral tablet disintegrating
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by fexofenadine (the active ingredient contained in Allegra). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking fexofenadine:
Some of the side effects that can occur with fexofenadine may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to fexofenadine: oral capsule, oral suspension, oral tablet, oral tablet disintegrating
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea and dyspepsia in approximately 1.5% of patients.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included drowsiness in 1.3% of patients.  Dizziness and headache have also been reported.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included dysmenorrhea at a rate of 1.3%.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included rare reports of rash, urticaria, and pruritus.  Other hypersensitivity reactions have included angioedema, chest tightness, dyspnea, flushing, and systemic anaphylaxis.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included nasopharyngitis and upper respiratory tract infection.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included myalgia, back pain, and pain in extremity.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Allegra (fexofenadine)." Hoechst Marion-Roussel Inc, Kansas City, MO. 
2. Takahashi H,  Ishida-Yamamoto A,  Iizuka H "Effects of bepotastine, cetirizine, fexofenadine, and olopatadine on histamine-induced wheal-and flare-response, sedation, and psychomotor performance." Clin Exp Dermatol 29 (2004): 526-32
3. Weiler JM, Bloomfield JR, Woodworth GG, Grant AR, Layton TA, Brown TL, McKenzie DR, Baker TW, Watson GS "Effects of fexofenadine, diphenhydramine, and alcohol on driving performance - A randomized, placebo-controlled trial in the Iowa Driving Simulator." Ann Intern Med 132 (2000): 354-63
Not all side effects for Allegra may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Chest tightness
feeling of warmth, redness of the face, neck, arms and occasionally, upper chest
large, hive-like swelling on face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
shortness of breath, difficult or labored breathing


Vomiting


Back pain
body aches or pain
chills
coughing
diarrhea
difficulty with moving
dizziness
ear congestion
earache
fever
headache
joint pain
loss of voice
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pains or stiffness
nasal congestion
nausea
pain in arms or legs
pain or tenderness around eyes or cheekbones
painful menstrual bleeding
redness or swelling in ear
ringing or buzzing in ears
runny or stuffy nose
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sneezing
sore throat
stomach upset
swollen joints
unusual feeling of tiredness or weakness
viral infection (such as cold and flu)


Nervousness
rash
sleeplessness
terrifying dreams
trouble sleeping

