Generic Name: orlistat
Common side effects of Alli include: bowel urgency, frequent bowel movements, oily evacuation, oily rectal leakage, steatorrhea, and flatulence with discharge. Other side effects include: fecal incontinence.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to orlistat: oral capsule
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by orlistat (the active ingredient contained in Alli). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking orlistat:
Some of the side effects that can occur with orlistat may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to orlistat: oral capsule
In general, the adverse effects of orlistat (the active ingredient contained in Alli) are mild and transient.  Because the drug is not systemically absorbed, most adverse effects are limited to the gastrointestinal tract and are primarily extensions of the pharmacologic activity of the drug.[Ref]
During clinical trials, approximately half of all incidents of GI adverse events associated with orlistat (the active ingredient contained in Alli) treatment lasted less than one week, and a majority lasted for no more than four weeks.  However, these side effects may occur in some persons over a period of 6 months or longer.A 42-year-old female experienced constipation, polyuria, polydipsia, and increased lower-leg edema after 2 weeks of treatment with orlistat 120 mg 3 times daily.  After the drug was discontinued for 4 days, the symptoms resolved.  On reinstitution of the orlistat therapy, the symptoms reappeared within 2 days.  Thereafter, the drug was permanently discontinued.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal (GI) side effects including oily spotting, flatus with discharge, fecal urgency, fatty or oily stool, oily evacuation, increased defecation, and fecal incontinence have been reported in greater than or equal to 5% of patients.  Cholelithiasis has been reported in 2.9% of patients versus 1.8% in placebo.  Other GI side effects possibly related to orlistat treatment have included abdominal pain and discomfort, nausea, infectious diarrhea, rectal pain and discomfort, tooth disorder, gingival disorder, and vomiting.  At least one case of constipation has been reported.  Pancreatitis has also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have rarely included pruritus, rash, urticaria, angioedema, bronchospasm, and anaphylaxis.  At least one case of cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis has also been reported.[Ref]
A 34-year-old male with a history of obesity experienced cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis coincident with orlistat therapy.  He decided to take orlistat (120 mg before meals) as medical therapy for obesity.  Seventy-two hours after the onset of this treatment, he experienced myalgias and arthralgias.  He also observed the presence of maculopapular lesions in rapidly increasing numbers in his lower extremities.  A skin biopsy revealed leukocytoclastic vasculitis affecting capillaries and venules.  Orlistat was discontinued and bed rest and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs were prescribed.  Following initiation of this procedure, a rapid improvement of the cutaneous lesions was attained.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included influenza, upper respiratory infection, lower respiratory infection, and ear, nose and throat symptoms.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included back pain, pain in the lower extremities, arthritis, myalgia, joint disorder, and tendonitis.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included headache and dizziness.  Postmarketing side effects have included reports of convulsions in patients treated concomitantly with orlistat (the active ingredient contained in Alli) and antiepileptic drugs.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included rash and dry skin.  Rare cases of bullous eruptions have been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included menstrual irregularities and vaginitis.  Urinary tract infection has also been reported.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects have included psychiatric anxiety and depression.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included pedal edema.  At least one case of hypertension has also been reported.[Ref]
A 40-year-old previously healthy female experienced hypertension coincident with orlistat therapy.  She took sporadic doses for some months and then increased the dosage to 120 mg three times a day.  She experienced dizziness, peripheral edema, and pulsating headache and discontinued treatment.  On medical examination, her blood pressure was 190/100 mm Hg on three different measurements.  She was advised to discontinue orlistat, and a few days later her blood pressure had decreased to 160/90 mm Hg and the edema had regressed.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included decreased prothrombin, increased INR, and unbalanced anticoagulant treatment with changes of hemostatic parameters in patients treated concomitantly with orlistat (the active ingredient contained in Alli) and anticoagulants.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects have included hypoglycemia in clinical trials of obese diabetic patients.  At least one case of diabetic ketoacidosis has also been reported, in addition to a case of polyuria and polydipsia.[Ref]
An 18-year-old female with type 1 diabetes for the past 3 years experienced diabetic ketoacidosis coincident with orlistat therapy.  She presented to the hospital after she began taking, on her own, orlistat 120 mg three times per day in addition to a low-calorie diet.  Laboratory data showed severe ketosis and positive urinary ketones.  Orlistat was discontinued, and she was started on intravenous hydration and insulin.  She showed significant improvement over a period of 5 days.A 42-year-old female experienced constipation, polyuria, polydipsia, and increased lower-leg edema after 2 weeks of treatment with orlistat 120 mg 3 times daily.  After the drug was discontinued for 4 days, the symptoms resolved.  On reinstitution of the orlistat therapy, the symptoms reappeared within 2 days.  Thereafter, the drug was permanently discontinued.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included rare reports of an increase in transaminases and in alkaline phosphatase, and exceptional cases of hepatitis.  No causal relationship or physiopathological mechanism between hepatitis and orlistat (the active ingredient contained in Alli) therapy has been established.  At least one case of severe hepatic injury has also been reported.  Hepatic side effects submitted post-marketing to the FDA's Adverse Event Reporting System have included jaundice, weakness, and abdominal pain.  The FDA has not established an association between liver injury and orlistat at this time.[Ref]
A 15-year-old female without a remarkable medical history experienced severe hepatic injury coincident with orlistat therapy.  She had taken orlistat 120 mg three times daily for 7 days for obesity.  One week later, she was admitted to an emergency hospital with abdominal pain, malaise, nausea, and diarrhea.  Her serum aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase levels were surprisingly high at 8269 intl units/L and 9976 intl units/L, respectively.  She was given vitamin K intravenously for 5 days, and liver function tests results normalized within 1 month.[Ref]
Renal side effects including at least one case of acute oxalate nephropathy have been reported.[Ref]
A 57-year-old female with underlying chronic kidney disease experienced acute kidney injury secondary to acute oxalate nephropathy coincident with orlistat therapy.  Acute kidney injury was associated temporally with an increased dosage of orlistat therapy and the development of increased fat malabsorption.  Kidney biopsy indicated deposition of calcium oxalate crystals within tubular lumens, consistent with acute oxalate crystals within tubules.  A steady improvement in renal function was subsequently observed.  Results of a repeated 24-hour urine oxalate collection performed 3 weeks later when kidney function had improved were within normal parameters.[Ref]
Other side effects have included fatigue, otitis, and sleep disorders.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Xenical (orlistat)." Roche Laboratories, Nutley, NJ. 
2. Packard KA,  Wurdeman RL,  Reyes AP "Constipation, polyuria, polydipsia, and edema associated with orlistat." Ann Pharmacother 36 (2002): 1168-70
3. Gonzalez-Gay MA,  Garcia-Porrua C,  Lueiro M,  Fernandez ML "Orlistat-induced cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis." Arthritis Rheum 47 (2002): 567
4. Persson M, Vitols S, Yue QY "Drug points - Orlistat associated with hypertension." Br Med J 321 (2000): 87
5. Azar ST, Zantout MS "Diabetic ketoacidosis associated with orlistat treatment." Diabetes Care 24 (2001): 602
6. FDA. U.S. Food and Drug Administration "Orlistat (marketed as Alli and Xenical): early communication about an ongoing safety review. Available from: URL: http://www.fda.gov/Safety/MedWatch/SafetyInformation/SafetyAlertsforHumanMedicalProducts/ucm180025.htm."   ([2009 Aug 24]):
7. Umemura T,  Ichijo T,  Matsumoto A,  Kiyosawa K "Severe hepatic injury caused by orlistat." Am J Med 119 (2006): e7
8. Singh A,  Sarkar SR,  Gaber LW,  Perazella MA "Acute oxalate nephropathy associated with orlistat, a gastrointestinal lipase inhibitor." Am J Kidney Dis 49 (2007): 153-7
Not all side effects for Alli may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bladder pain
body aches
chills
cough
diarrhea
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
loss of appetite
loss of voice
lower back or side pain
muscle aches and pains
nasal congestion
nausea
runny nose
shivering
sneezing
sore throat
sweating
trouble sleeping
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting


Tightness in the chest
tooth or gum problems
troubled breathing
wheezing


Bloody or cloudy urine
change in hearing
contagious diarrhea
dark urine
difficult or painful urination
earache
fast heartbeat
frequent urge to urinate
general tiredness and weakness
hives
hoarseness
irritation
itching
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
light-colored stools
noisy breathing
pain in the ears
rash
redness of the skin
shortness of breath
skin blisters
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, hands, or feet
troubled swallowing
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
yellow eyes and skin


Anxiety
bloating
blurred vision
cold sweats
coma
confusion
constipation
cool, pale skin
depression
dizziness
dry skin and hair
feeling cold
hair loss
hoarseness or husky voice
increased hunger
indigestion
loss of appetite
muscle cramps and stiffness
nervousness
nightmares
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
seizures
weight gain


Abdominal or stomach pain or discomfort
back pain
difficulty with moving
gas with leaky bowel movements
inability to hold bowel movement
increases in bowel movements 
loss of bowel control
oily bowel movements
oily spotting of underclothes


Itching of the vagina or genital area
menstrual changes
pain during sexual intercourse
rectal pain or discomfort
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor

