If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking metaproterenol, get emergency help immediately:
Metaproterenol (the active ingredient contained in Alupent) has been usually well-tolerated and adverse effects that occurred were consistent with its pharmacological activity.  Additionally, partial or complete tolerance may develop to these side effects.  In general, the severity of these effects are dependent on the dose and the route of administration.  Metaproterenol given by metered dose inhaler (MDI) is associated with less systemic effects than administration of higher dosages orally or by nebulizer.
Cardiovascular side effects have included palpitations and peripheral vasodilation, commonly resulting in reflex tachycardia.  This may be caused by the interaction of metaproterenol (the active ingredient contained in Alupent) with beta-1 and beta-2 receptors.  Blood pressure may increase or decrease.  Metaproterenol in higher dosages may rarely aggravate angina, myocardial ischemia, or cause atrial or ventricular arrhythmias.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included tremors.  Tolerance often develop to the tremorogenic effects following prolonged use of this medication.  Severe muscle cramping may occur infrequently.
The hypokalemic effect is due to the stimulation of beta-2 receptors that are linked to sodium-potassium ATPase in skeletal muscles, resulting in an intracellular influx of potassium.
Metabolic side effects have included hypokalemia, hypophosphatemia, hyperglycemia, and elevations in plasma insulin.
Nervous system side effects have included restlessness, nervousness, anxiety, irritability, headache, dizziness, and insomnia.
Other side effects have included the development of tachyphylaxis to the bronchodilating effects of metaproterenol (the active ingredient contained in Alupent)   Although conflicting data exist, complete clinical tolerance has not been observed.
A 25-year-old woman respiratory therapist with a history of an itchy dermatitis on the face, neck, and upper extremities showed a positive reaction to metaproterenol (the active ingredient contained in Alupent) on skin patch testing.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included rare reports of dermatitis.
Respiratory side effects have included pulmonary edema in pregnant patients receiving the drug intravenously.
Fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
Shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
worsening of asthma
Blurred vision
chest pain
chills
cough
diarrhea
dizziness
fainting
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
increased sweating
joint pain
loss of appetite
muscle aches and pains
nausea
nervousness
pounding in the ears
puffiness of the face and fingers
runny nose
shivering
slow or fast heartbeat
sore throat
sweating
swelling
trouble sleeping
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Arm, back, or jaw pain
chest discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
dry mouth
general feeling of discomfort or illness
shortness of breath
sleeplessness
unable to sleep
Abdominal or stomach pain 
Bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
change in appetite
drowsiness
dry mouth or throat
itching skin
pain
raised red swellings on the skin, lips, tongue, or in the throat
tightening of the muscles
weakness