Generic Name: glimepiride
Applies to glimepiride: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by glimepiride (the active ingredient contained in Amaryl). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking glimepiride:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking glimepiride, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with glimepiride may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to glimepiride: oral tablet
The most commonly reported adverse events included hypoglycemia, headache, nausea, asthenia, and dizziness.[Ref]
Hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) occurred in mostly in patients who were on other medications or who had medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increased release of antidiuretic hormone.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Hypoglycemia (up to 19.7%) Frequency not reported: Weight gainPostmarketing reports: Hyponatremia, SIADH[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis, granulocytopenia, erythropenia, aplastic anemia, pancytopenia Postmarketing reports: Hemolytic anemia in patients without G6PD deficiency, thrombocytopenia purpura[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Allergic reactions such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, a morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions Frequency not reported: Cutaneous eruptions with or without pruritus, cross-allergenicity with sulfonylureas, sulfonamides, or related substances Postmarketing reports: Anaphylaxis, angioedema, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, dyspnea[Ref]
Temporary visual impairment due to changes in blood glucose levels may occur due to temporary alteration in the turgidity and hence the refractive index of the lens which is dependent on blood glucose levels.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Transient visual disturbances[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular rashes in less than 1% of cases.  Sulfonylureas have caused porphyria cutanea tarda and photosensitivity reactions.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Headache, dizziness[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal discomfort, abdominal pain, sensations of pressure or fullness in the epigastrium[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Elevated ALTVery rare (less than 0.01%): Hepatic function abnormal, hepatitis, hepatic failurePostmarketing reports: Hepatitis and liver impairment, e.g.  with cholestasis and jaundice, hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Flu syndromeVery rare (less than 0.01%): Leukocytoclastic vasculitis[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Asthenia, accidental injury[Ref]
Accidental injury was reported more frequently in patients receiving this drug (5.4% vs 3.4%).  There was insufficient information available to determine if these events were associated with hypoglycemia.[Ref]
1. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
3. "Product Information. Amaryl (glimepiride)." Hoechst Marion-Roussel Inc, Kansas City, MO. 
Not all side effects for Amaryl may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
hives
itching
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or  tongue
shortness of breath
skin rash
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
wheezing


Abdominal or stomach pain
agitation
back, leg, or stomach pains
bleeding gums
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating of abdomen
blood in the urine or stools
bloody, black, or tarry stools
chest pain
chills
coma
confusion
cough or hoarseness
dark urine
decreased urine output
depression
diarrhea
difficulty with breathing
fever with or without chills
fluid-filled skin blisters
general body swelling
general tiredness and weakness
headache
high fever
hostility
irritability
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
lethargy
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
muscle twitching
nausea and vomiting
nosebleeds
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rapid weight gain
red, irritated eyes
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
seizures
sensitivity to the sun
skin thinness
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stupor
swelling of face, ankles, or hands
swollen or painful glands
unusual bleeding or bruising
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
yellow eyes or skin


Anxiety
blurred vision
cold sweats
cool, pale skin
increased hunger
nightmares
shakiness
slurred speech


Lack or loss of strength


Redness or other discoloration of the skin
severe sunburn

