Generic Name: zolpidem
Common side effects of Ambien CR include: drowsiness. Other side effects include: hallucination, myalgia, visual hallucination, anxiety, and nausea.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to zolpidem: oral tablet, oral tablet extended release
Other dosage forms:
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by zolpidem (the active ingredient contained in Ambien CR). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking zolpidem:
Some of the side effects that can occur with zolpidem may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to zolpidem: oral spray, oral tablet, oral tablet extended release, sublingual tablet
In general, zolpidem (the active ingredient contained in Ambien CR) is well-tolerated and causes little or no residual daytime effects in most young adult volunteers.  Additionally, zolpidem does not significantly alter sleep architecture at recommended doses.General side effects including fatigue have been reported.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects most frequently have included visual disturbances, ataxia, and dizziness.  Headache, drugged feeling, confusion, anterograde amnesia, excessive sedation, lightheadedness, delirium, nightmares, hallucinations, nervousness, and agitation have also been reported.[Ref]
Chronic use in high doses and subsequent withdrawal may induce grand mal seizures.  Cases of falls have been reported in elderly patients.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects including rare cases of angioedema involving the tongue, glottis or larynx have been reported in patients after taking the first or subsequent doses of sedative-hypnotics, including zolpidem (the active ingredient contained in Ambien CR)   Some patients have had additional symptoms such as dyspnea, throat closing, or nausea and vomiting that suggest anaphylaxis.
Some patients have required medical therapy in the emergency department.  If angioedema involves the throat, glottis or larynx, airway obstruction may occur and be fatal.  Patients who develop angioedema after treatment with zolpidem should not be rechallenged with the drug.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, vomiting, dyspepsia, anorexia, and diarrhea.  In clinical studies on the sublingual tablet, one patient developed transient sublingual erythema and another patient developed transient paresthesia of the tongue.[Ref]
Other side effects including tolerance to the pharmacologic effects of zolpidem (the active ingredient contained in Ambien CR) have been reported rarely.  Withdrawal symptoms after either abrupt cessation or fast tapering may occur.  Withdrawal symptoms may include agitation, restlessness, anxiety, depression, insomnia, tremor, nausea, abdominal discomfort, and sweating.Other side effects associated with the oral spray have included dry mouth.A case of sleep driving has also been reported.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects including cases of psychotic reactions have been reported in association with zolpidem (the active ingredient contained in Ambien CR) therapy.[Ref]
Zolpidem-induced respiratory depression may be responsive to flumazenil.  Zolpidem-induced respiratory depression is generally not clinically significant at the usual hypnotic doses even in patients with impaired respiratory function.One study has suggested that zolpidem (the active ingredient contained in Ambien CR) doses of 20 mg (twice the usual dose) may cause apneic episodes in patients with obstructive sleep apnea.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included respiratory depression which may occur at high doses.  Upper or lower respiratory tract infection and rhinitis have also been reported.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects including palpitations have been reported in patients taking zolpidem (the active ingredient contained in Ambien CR) [Ref]
Genitourinary side effects including urinary incontinence and urinary tract infection have been reported.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects include one case of hepatotoxicity associated with zolpidem (the active ingredient contained in Ambien CR) given alone at therapeutic doses.[Ref]
Immunologic side effects including infection have been reported infrequently.
Musculoskeletal side effects including arthralgia and myalgia have been reported.
1. Sauvanet JP, Maarek L, Roger M, Renaudin J, Louvel E, Orofiamma B. Open long-term trials with zolpidem in insomnia. In: Sauvanet JP, Langer SZ, Morselli PL, eds. "Imidazopyridines in Sleep Disorders: a Novel Experimental and Therapeutic Approach." New York, NY: Raven Press  (1988): 339-49
2. Langtry HD, Benfield P "Zolpidem. A review of its pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties and therapeutic potential." Drugs 40 (1990): 291-313
3. Morselli PL, Larribaud J, Guillet PH, et al.. Daytime residual effects of zolpidem: a review of available data. In: Sauvanet JP, Langer SZ, Morselli PL, eds. "Imidazopyridines in Sleep Disorders: a Novel Experimental and Therapeutic Approach." New York, NY: Raven Press  (1988): 183-91
4. Canaday BR "Amnesia possibly associated with zolpidem administration." Pharmacotherapy 16 (1996): 687-9
5. Roger M, Dallot JY, Salmon O, et al.. Hypnotic effect of zolpidem in geriatric patients: a dose-finding study. In: Sauvanet JP, Langer SZ, Morselli PL, eds. "Imidazopyridines in Sleep Disorders: a Novel Experimental and Therapeutic Approach." New York, NY: Raven Press  (1988): 279-87
6. Pies RW "Dose-related sensory distortions with zolpidem." J Clin Psychiatry 56 (1995): 35-6
7. Palminteri R, Narbonne G. Safety profile of zolpidem. In: Sauvanet JP, Langer SZ, Morselli PL, eds. "Imidazopyridines in Sleep Disorders: a Novel Experimental and Therapeutic Approach." New York, NY: Raven Press  (1988): 351-61
8. Scharf MB, Kaffeman M, Rodgers L, Segal J. Single dose tolerance study of zolpidem. In: Sauvanet JP, Langer SZ, Morselli PL, eds. "Imidazopyridines in Sleep Disorders: a Novel Experimental and Therapeutic Approach." New York, NY: Raven Press  (1988): 175-81
9. Emeriau JP, Descamps A, Dechelotte P, Poch B, Harribey B, Alla P, Colle M. Zolpidem and flunitrazepam: a multicenter trial in elderly hospitalized patients. In: Sauvanet JP, Langer SZ, Morselli PL, eds. "Imidazopyridines in Sleep Disorders: a Novel Experimental and Therapeutic Approach." New York, NY: Raven Press  (1988): 317-26
10. Vanpuijenbroek EP, Egberts ACG, Krom HJ "Visual hallucinations and amnesia associated with the use of zolpidem." Int J Clin Pharmacol Ther 34 (1996): 318
11. "Product Information. Edluar (zolpidem)." Meda Pharmaceuticals, Somerset, NJ. 
12. Abramowicz M, Rizack MA, Hirsch J, et al "Zolpidem for insomnia." Med Lett Drugs Ther 35 (1993): 35-6
13. Sanchez LG, Sanchez JM, Moreno JL "Dependence and tolerence with zolpidem." Am J Health Syst Pharm 53 (1996): 2638
14. Doane JA,  Dalpiaz AS "Zolpidem-induced sleep-driving." Am J Med 121 (2008): e5
15. Cavallaro R, Regazzetti MG, Covelli G, Smeraldi E "Tolerance and withdrawal with zolpidem." Lancet 342 (1993): 374-5
16. Gericke CA, Ludolph AC "Chronic abuse of zolpidem." JAMA 272 (1994): 1721-2
17. Ansseau M, Pitchot W, Hansenne M, Gonzalez Moreno A "Psychotic reactions to zolpidem." Lancet 339 (1992): 809
18. Brodeur MR,  Stirling AL "Delirium associated with zolpidem." Ann Pharmacother 35 (2001): 1562-4
19. de Haas S,  Dingemanse J,  Hoever P,  Cohen A,  van Gerven J "Pseudohallucinations After Zolpidem Intake: A Case Report." J Clin Psychopharmacol 27 (2007): 728-730
20. Cirignotta F, Mondini S, Zucconi M, Gerardi R, Farolfi A, Lugaresi E. Controlled polysomnographic study of the effects of benzodiazepine and non-benzodiazepine hypnotics (zolpidem) in obstructive sleep apnea patients: preliminary results. In: Sauvanet JP, "Imidazopyridines in Sleep Disorders: a Novel Experimental and Therapeutic Approach." New York, NY: Raven Press  (1988): 297-304
21. Lheureux P, Debailleul G, De Witte O, Askenasi R "Zolpidem intoxication mimicking narcotic overdose: response to flumazenil." Hum Exp Toxicol 9 (1990): 105-7
22. Murciano D, Aubier M, Palacios S, Parients R "Comparison of zolpidem (Z), triazolam (T), and flunitrazepam (F) effects on arterial blood gases and control of breathing in patients with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)." Chest 97 Suppl (1990): s51-2
23. "Product Information. Ambien (zolpidem)." Searle, Skokie, IL. 
24. Karsenti D, Blanc P, Bacq Y, Metman EH "Hepatotoxicity associated with zolpidem treatment." Br Med J 318 (1999): 1179
Not all side effects for Ambien CR may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
spray, tablet

Chest pain
confusion
confusion about identity, place, and time
discouragement
false or unusual sense of well-being
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
feeling sad or empty
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
irritability
lack of appetite
lightheadedness
loss of interest or pleasure
shakiness and unsteady walk
tiredness
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination
unusual tiredness or weakness


Anxiety
bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chills
cold sweats
crying
decreased awareness or responsiveness
depersonalization
difficult, burning, or painful urination
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from lying or sitting position
dry mouth
dysphoria
euphoria
fainting
frequent urge to urinate
hyperventilation
irregular heartbeats
irritability
lower back or side pain
paranoia
quick to react or overreact emotionally
rapidly changing moods
restlessness
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
severe sleepiness
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
shortness of breath
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet


Attack, assault, or force
black, tarry stools
change in walking and balance
clumsiness or unsteadiness
cough
delusions
dementia
difficulty swallowing
dizziness
hives. itching, or skin rash
lack of feeling or emotion
pale skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swollen glands
thoughts of killing oneself or changes in behavior
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing with exertion
uncaring
unusual bleeding or bruising


Drowsiness
headache
muscle aches
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
stuffy or runny nose


Abdominal or stomach discomfort
acid or sour stomach
back pain
being forgetful
belching
body aches or pain
congestion
diarrhea
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
difficulty with moving
double vision
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
heartburn
hoarseness
indigestion
longer or heavier menstrual periods
loss of memory
muscle pain or stiffness
nausea
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
seeing double
sensation of spinning
tender, swollen glands in the neck
unusual drowsiness, dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness
voice changes


Bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
breast pain
change in taste
changes in patterns and rhythms of speech
increased sweating
itching of the vagina or genital area
pain during sexual intercourse
paleness of the skin
slurred speech
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
vomiting


Blemishes on the skin
blindness
blurred vision
change in near or distance vision
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
difficulty in focusing eyes
eye pain
feeling of warmth
frequent urge to defecate
inability to have or keep an erection
increased appetite
increased sensitivity of the skin to sunlight
lack or loss of strength
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
pimples
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
redness or other discoloration of the skin
severe sunburn
stomach upset
straining while passing stool
tearing
weight loss

