Applies to amiloride: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by amiloride. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking amiloride:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking amiloride, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with amiloride may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to amiloride: compounding powder, oral tablet
Cases of severe hyponatremia have been reported during hydrochlorothiazide-amiloride therapy.  In 3 cases, the patients subsequently did well with hydrochlorothiazide and potassium supplementation, suggesting a significant role for amiloride in the development of their hyponatremia.Significantly elevated serum uric acid, cholesterol, and triglyceride levels have been associated with combination hydrochlorothiazide-amiloride therapy.  These metabolic abnormalities may not be due to amiloride since they are reported during hydrochlorothiazide monotherapy.Amiloride is known to cause significant elevations in serum aldosterone, renin, and angiotensin II levels.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects are the most common.  Amiloride may cause hyperkalemia in up to 10% of patients, although the risk is decreased to about 1% to 2% when thiazide or loop diuretics are coadministered.  Patients with diabetes or who are on other potassium-sparing therapy, ACE inhibitors, or potassium supplementation are predisposed to amiloride-induced hyperkalemia.[Ref]
Renal side effects including renal insufficiency is unusual after amiloride monotherapy because it is only a weak diuretic.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal complaints of diarrhea, nausea, constipation, anorexia, and general abdominal pain occur less than 5% of patients.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects occur in less than 3% of patients, and include headache, weakness, and fatigue.  Encephalopathy may be induced by amiloride-associated metabolic changes in some patients with severe liver disease.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects are mainly limited to the increased risk of hyperkalemia-induced arrhythmias in patients at risk for arrhythmias.  Angina pectoris, arrhythmias, and orthostatic hypotension are reported in less than 1% of patients.[Ref]
Genitourinary problems include rare complaints of impotence.  Polyuria and urinary frequency are reported in less than 1% of patients.[Ref]
1. Millar JA, Fraser R, Mason P, Leckie B, Cumming AM, Robertson JI "Metabolic effects of high dose amiloride and spironolactone: a comparative study in normal subjects." Br J Clin Pharmacol 18 (1984): 369-75
2. Vidt DG "Mechanism of action, pharmacokinetics, adverse effects, and therapeutic uses of amiloride hydrochloride, a new potassium-sparing diuretic." Pharmacotherapy 1 (1981): 179-86
3. McNay JL, Oran E "Possible predisposition of diabetic patients to hyperkalemia following administration of potassium-retaining diuretic, amiloride (MK 870)." Metabolism 19 (1970): 58-70
4. Tarssanen L, Huikko M, Rossi M "Amiloride-induced hyponatremia." Acta Med Scand 208 (1980): 491-4
5. Davidson C, Burkinshaw L, Morgan DB "The effects of potassium supplements, spironolactone or amiloride on the potassium status of patients with heart failure." Postgrad Med J 54 (1978): 405-9
6. Svendsen UG, Ibsen H, Rasmussen S, Leth A, Nielsen MD, Dige-Petersen H, Giese J "Effects of amiloride on plasma and total body potassium, blood pressure, and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system in thiazide-treated hypertensive patients." Clin Pharmacol Ther 34 (1983): 448-53
7. Schiffl H, Schollmeyer P "Clinical efficacy and safety of long-term diuretic treatment in renal parenchymal hypertension." Int J Clin Pharmacol Ther Toxicol 23 (1985): 585-8
8. "Product Information. Midamor (amiloride)." Merck & Co, Inc, West Point, PA. 
9. Maddox RW, Arnold WS, Dewell WM "Extreme hyperkalemia associated with amiloride ." South Med J 78 (1985): 365
10. Lynn KL, Bailey RR, Swainson CP, Sainsbury R, Low WI "Renal failure with potassium-sparing diuretics." N Z Med J 98 (1985): 629-33
Not all side effects for amiloride may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Abdominal pain
confusion
difficulty with breathing
irregular heartbeat
nausea or vomiting
nervousness
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
shortness of breath
weakness or heaviness of the legs


Agitation
back pain
blurred vision
coma
dizziness
drowsiness
fever
hallucinations (seeing things that aren't there)
headache
irritability
labored breathing
mood or mental changes
seizures (convulsions)
stiff neck
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
wheezing


Arm or jaw pain
bloody or black, tarry stools
burning while urinating
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
change in vision
chest pain, discomfort, or heaviness
chills
clay-colored stools
cold sweats
constipation
dark urine
difficult or painful urination
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly
fainting
fast, pounding, racing, or slow heartbeat or pulse
itching
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
loss of vision
rash
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
stomach pain, severe
sweating
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
unpleasant breath odor
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
yellow eyes or skin


Continuing stomach pain
cough
lower back or side pain
pale skin
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swollen or painful glands
unusual bleeding or bruising


Decreased urination
dry mouth
increase in heart rate
lightheadedness
muscle cramps or pain
pain or weakness in the hands or feet
rapid breathing
sunken eyes
thirst
wrinkled skin


Diarrhea
weight loss


Changes in appetite
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
inability to have or keep an erection
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance


Acid or sour stomach
belching
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
discouragement
disturbed color perception
double vision
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
feeling sad or empty
frequent urination
full or bloated feeling
hair loss or thinning of hair
hearing loss
increased need to urinate
increased volume of pale, dilute urine
indigestion
joint pain
leg ache or pain
loss of interest or pleasure
neck or shoulder ache
night blindness
overbright appearance of lights
pain in the chest below the breastbone
passing of gas
passing urine more often
pressure in the stomach
seeing halos around lights
sensation of spinning
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sleeplessness
stomach fullness, discomfort, or upset
stuffy nose
swelling of abdominal or stomach area
swelling of the breasts or breast soreness in both females and males
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
tunnel vision
unable to sleep

