Applies to amprenavir: oral liquid-filled capsules, oral solution
Side effects include:
Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain/discomfort, taste disorder, rash, paresthesia (oral/perioral).   
Applies to amprenavir: oral capsule, oral solution
Gastrointestinal side effects and skin rashes were the most frequent side effects in clinical trials of amprenavir in combination with other antiretrovirals.  Gastrointestinal effects (nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal pain) most often resulted in discontinuation of amprenavir during the first 12 weeks of treatment.  Skin rashes had a median onset and duration of 11 and 10 days, respectively, and led to discontinuation of amprenavir in 3% of patients.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea (74%), vomiting (34%), and diarrhea or loose stools (39%) in clinical trials when amprenavir was administered with lamivudine and zidovudine in therapy-naive patients.  This compares to an incidence of 50%, 17%, and 34%, respectively, when therapy-naive patients were only administered lamivudine and zidovudine.  Abdominal symptoms (unspecified, 14%) and anorexia have been reported in patients receiving amprenavir in combination with ritonavir plus other antiretrovirals.[Ref]
Rashes were usually maculopapular, mild to moderate in intensity, and some with pruritus.  The onset of rash development was approximately 10 days and ranged from 7 to 73 days.  Amprenavir was often continued with mild to moderate rash and if discontinued, rash did not recur when the drug was restarted.  Amprenavir should be discontinued for severe or life-threatening rashes and for moderate rashes accompanied by systemic symptoms.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have been reported frequently.  Skin rash occurred in 28% of HIV-1 infected patients treated with amprenavir in all multidose studies.  Severe or life-threatening rash, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, occurred in 1% of patients.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects have included hyperglycemia (37%), hypertriglyceridemia (36%), and hypercholesterolemia (4%) in clinical trials when amprenavir was administered with lamivudine and zidovudine in therapy-naive nonfasting patients.  This compares to an incidence of 29%, 22% and 3%, respectively, when therapy-naive nonfasting patients were only administered lamivudine and zidovudine.  Grade 3/4 hypertriglyceridemia (8% to 13%) and hyperglycemia (2% to 3%) have been reported in patients receiving amprenavir in combination with ritonavir.  New onset and exacerbation of preexisting diabetes mellitus, elevated serum creatine kinase, and ketoacidosis have also been reported.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included elevations in AST (greater than 5 times ULN), ALT (greater than 5 times ULN), and amylase (greater than 2 times ULN) in 3% to 5% of patients receiving amprenavir in combination with ritonavir.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included oral/perioral paresthesia (26%) and other paresthesias (10%), including peripheral paresthesias, in clinical trials when amprenavir was administered with lamivudine and zidovudine in therapy-naive patients.  This compares to an incidence of 6% and 4%, respectively, when therapy-naive patients were only administered lamivudine and zidovudine.  Headache (12% to 16%) has been reported in patients receiving amprenavir in combination with ritonavir plus other antiretrovirals.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects have included depression and mood disorder in 15% of therapy-naive patients who were administered amprenavir with lamivudine and zidovudine in clinical trials.  This compares to an incidence of 4% when therapy-naive patients were only administered lamivudine and zidovudine.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included neutropenia and hemolytic anemia.  Hematologic side effects associated with protease inhibitors have included spontaneous bleeding in patients with hemophilia A and B.  In many of the reported cases, treatment with protease inhibitors was continued or restarted and some patients required additional factor VIII.  A causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these episodes has not been established.[Ref]
Redistribution/accumulation of body fat, including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement, peripheral wasting, breast enlargement, and "cushingoid appearance" have been observed in patients receiving protease inhibitors.  The mechanism and long-term consequences of these events are currently unknown and a causal relationship has not been established.  In one case, reduction of neck fat disposition (buffalo hump) was reported when amprenavir replaced indinavir in a regimen.[Ref]
Other side effects have included taste disorders in 10% of therapy-naive patients who were administered amprenavir with lamivudine and zidovudine in clinical trials.  This compares to an incidence of 5% when therapy-naive patients were only administered lamivudine and zidovudine.  Fatigue (7% to 14%) and chills have been reported in patients receiving amprenavir in combination with ritonavir plus other antiretrovirals.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included urticaria.[Ref]
1. Arvieux C,  Tribut O "Amprenavir or Fosamprenavir plus Ritonavir in HIV Infection: Pharmacology, Efficacy and Tolerability Profile." Drugs 65 (2005): 633-59
2. Bart PA, Rizzardi GP, Tambussi G, Chave JP, Chapuis AG, Graziois C, Corpataux JM, Halkic N, Meuwly JY, Munoz M, Meylan P, "Immunological and virological responses in HIV-1-infected adults at early stage of established infection treated with highly active antiretroviral therapy." Aids 14 (2000): 1887-97
3. Wire MB,  Baker KL,  Jones LS, et al. "Ritonavir Increases Plasma Amprenavir (APV) Exposure to a Similar Extent when Coadministered with either Fosamprenavir or APV." Antimicrob Agents Chemother 50 (2006): 1578-80
4. DHHS Panel on Antiretroviral Guidelines for Adults and Adolescents -- A Working Group of the Office of AIDS Research Advisory Council (OARAC) "Guidelines for the use of antiretroviral agents in HIV-1-infected adults and adolescents. Available from: URL: http://aidsinfo.nih.gov/ContentFiles/AdultandAdolescentGL.pdf."   ([2006 Oct 10]):
5. "Product Information. Agenerase (amprenavir)." Glaxo Wellcome, Research Triangle Pk, NC. 
6. The Working Group on Antiretroviral Therapy and Medical Management of HIV Infected Children Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Center,  UMDNJ,  The Health Resources and Services Administration,  The National Institutes of Health "Guidelines for the use of antiretroviral agents in pediatric HIV infection. Available from: URL: http://aidsinfo.nih.gov/ContentFiles/PediatricGuidelines.pdf."   ([2006 Oct 26]):
7. "Drugs for HIV infection." Med Lett Drugs Ther 43 (2001): 103-8
8. Anderson PL "Pharmacologic perspectives for once-daily antiretroviral therapy." Ann Pharmacother 38 (2004): 1969-70
9. Adkins JC, Faulds D "Amprenavir." Drugs 55 (1998): 837-42;disc. 843-4
10. Borras-Blasco J,  Navarro-Ruiz A,  Borras C,  Castera E "Adverse cutaneous reactions associated with the newest antiretroviral drugs in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection." J Antimicrob Chemother 62 (2008): 879-88
11. Bergersen BM "Cardiovascular Risk in Patients with HIV Infection : Impact of Antiretroviral Therapy." Drugs 66 (2006): 1971-87
12. Costa A,  Pulido F,  Rubio R,  Cepeda C,  Torralba M,  Costa JR "Lipid changes in HIV-infected patients who started rescue therapy with an amprenavir/ritonavir-based highly active antiretroviral therapy." AIDS 16 (2002): 1983-4
13. Khanlou H, Adair M, Farthing C "Reduction of buffalo hump by switching to amprenavir in an HIV-infected patient." Arch Intern Med 160 (2000): 3499-500
Not all side effects for amprenavir may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
