Generic Name: dalfampridine
Common side effects of Ampyra include: urinary tract infection. Other side effects include: equilibrium disturbance, insomnia, and nausea.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to dalfampridine: oral tablet extended release
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by dalfampridine (the active ingredient contained in Ampyra). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking dalfampridine:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking dalfampridine, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with dalfampridine may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to dalfampridine: oral tablet extended release
Renal side effects including urinary tract infection (12%) have been reported.[Ref]
General side effects including insomnia (9%) and asthenia (7%) have been reported.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects including dizziness (7%), headache (7%), balance disorder (5%), multiple sclerosis relapse (4%), and paresthesia (4%) have been reported.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea (7%), constipation (3%), dyspepsia (2%), and pharyngolaryngeal pain (2%) have been reported.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects including back pain (5%) have been reported.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects including nasopharyngitis (4%) have been reported.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have been have reported in animal studies which noted a significant increase in uterine polyps at the highest dose tested.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Ampyra (dalfampridine)." Acorda Therapeutics, Hawthorne, NY. 
Not all side effects for Ampyra may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
difficult, burning, or painful urination
frequent urge to urinate
lower back or side pain


Blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
difficulty controlling your bladder or bowels
difficulty walking
feeling sad or depressed
forgetful
muscle cramps
numbness or tingling in your arms, legs, or face
slurred speech or problems with swallowing
unusual tiredness or weakness


Cough
dizziness
fast heartbeat
hives
itching
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
shortness of breath
skin rash
tightness in the chest


Confusion
epileptic seizure that will not stop
increased sweating
memory loss
problems with memory
reduced awareness
seizures
weakness


Headache
lack or loss of strength
nausea
trouble sleeping


Back pain
constipation
fever
headache
muscle aches
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose

