Applies to amyl nitrite: inhalation solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by amyl nitrite. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking amyl nitrite, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some of the side effects that can occur with amyl nitrite may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to amyl nitrite: inhalation solution
Cardiovascular side effects manifesting as mild transitory headache, dizziness, and flushing of the face are common with the use of amyl nitrite.  Hypotension, syncope, and tachycardia have also been reported.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects including cold sweats, pallor, restlessness, weakness, and involuntary passing of urine and feces have been reported.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects including vomiting and nausea have been reported.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects including methemoglobinemia associated with high doses of chronically administered amyl nitrite have been reported.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Amyl Nitrite (amyl nitrite)." Raway Pharmacal Inc, Accord, NY. 
Not all side effects for amyl nitrite may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Skin rash
unusual tiredness or weakness 


Bluish-colored lips, fingernails, or palms of hands
dizziness (extreme) or fainting
feeling of extreme pressure in head
shortness of breath 
unusual tiredness or weakness
 weak and fast heartbeat


Dizziness or lightheadedness, especially when getting up from a lying or sitting position
fast pulse
flushing of face and neck
headache (mild)
nausea or vomiting
restlessness

