Generic Name: hydrocortisone / lidocaine topical
Applies to hydrocortisone / lidocaine topical: cream, gel/jelly, lotion, pad
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by hydrocortisone / lidocaine topical. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking hydrocortisone / lidocaine topical:


Applies to hydrocortisone / lidocaine topical: rectal cream, rectal cream with applicator, rectal gel with applicator, rectal kit, rectal pad, topical cream, topical kit, topical lotion, topical pad
Local side effects have included erythema, edema, transient stinging, burning, transient blanching, and locus of abnormal sensation.Local side effects associated with topical hydrocortisone have included burning, itching, or irritation, especially if applied to denuded skin or with occlusive dressings.  Long-term use of topical corticosteroids may result in skin atrophy and thinning, and the development of striae, telangiectasia, subcutaneous hemorrhage, and easy bruising and bleeding.  Allergic contact dermatitis is occasionally reported.[Ref]
Endocrine side effects of topical corticosteroids are rare.  Glucose intolerance and hyperglycemia may be induced by corticosteroids.  These drugs can rarely suppress the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.  This suppression is more likely when higher potency topical steroids are used over extensive areas and when occlusive dressings are used.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Lida Mantle HC (hydrocortisone-lidocaine topical)." Bradley Pharmaceuticals Inc, Fairfield, NJ. 
2. "Product Information. Peranex HC (hydrocortisone-lidocaine topical)." Bradley Pharmaceuticals Inc, Fairfield, NJ. 
Not all side effects for AnaMantle HC may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Burning or stinging sensation of the skin
paleness or redness of the skin
swelling of the skin

