As well as its needed effects, penicillin v potassium may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Stop taking penicillin v potassium and get emergency help immediately if any of the following effects occur:
Some penicillin v potassium side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most common side effects are gastrointestinal effects and hypersensitivity reactions.  In general, hypersensitivity reactions have been reported much less frequently after oral than after parenteral therapy; however, all degrees of hypersensitivity (including fatal anaphylaxis) have been reported with oral penicillin.
Onset of Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea has been reported during or after antibacterial therapy.
Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrheaRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Sore mouth, black hairy tongue (discoloration of tongue), pseudomembranous colitisFrequency not reported: Epigastric distress, stomatitis, glossitis, soft stools, pancreatitis, intestinal necrosis, blood in the stool
Hypersensitivity reactions with penicillin were more common and more serious with IV therapy, but have also been reported with oral therapy.  An initial sensitizing exposure is required to stimulate the production of antigen-specific IgE before clinical manifestations of hypersensitivity were seen on the second exposure.  There were numerous "hidden" environmental or occupational exposures to penicillin including in utero exposure, breast milk exposure, and occupational exposure.
Common (1% to 10%): Allergic reactions (usually manifested as skin reactions)Rare (0.01% to 0.1%): Severe allergic reactions (causing angioedema, laryngeal edema, anaphylaxis [severe or fatal])Frequency not reported: Serum sickness-like reactions (chills, fever, edema, arthralgia, prostration), hypersensitivity/allergic reactions (including skin eruptions [maculopapular to exfoliative dermatitis], pruritus, urticaria, angioneurotic edema, erythema multiforme, joint pain, fever, eosinophilia, hypersensitivity myocarditis, hemolytic anemia, interstitial nephritis, anaphylactic shock [sometimes fatal] with collapse, anaphylactoid reactions [asthma, purpura, gastrointestinal symptoms])
Common (1% to 10%): Rash (urticarial, erythematous, morbilliform), pruritusRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Exfoliative dermatitisFrequency not reported: Peeling, mucosal ulceration, urticaria
Very rare (less than 0.01%): Changes in blood counts, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, eosinophilia, agranulocytosisFrequency not reported: Coagulation disorders (including prolonged bleeding time, platelet dysfunction), anemia, lymphadenopathy
Very rare (less than 0.01%): Hepatitis, cholestatic jaundiceFrequency not reported: Increased AST, reversible hepatotoxicity, jaundice, prolonged cholestasis
Nephropathy has typically been associated with high doses of parenteral penicillin.
Very rare (less than 0.01%): Interstitial nephritisFrequency not reported: Nephropathy
Frequency not reported: Central nervous system (CNS) toxicity (including convulsions), paresthesia, neuropathy, myoclonus, seizures, decreased mentation, abnormal taste perception, tinnitus, neurologic reactions, aseptic meningitis
CNS toxicity has been reported, especially with high doses or in severe renal dysfunction.  Paresthesia has been reported with prolonged use.  Neuropathy has typically been associated with high doses of parenteral penicillin.Severe neurologic reactions were most often seen with penicillin doses of 18 to 80 million units daily.  These reactions frequently abated after discontinuation of penicillin.  In several cases, penicillin was restarted at a lower dose with no further sequelae.  In 1 review, the authors found that cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) penicillin levels were higher in patients with seizures than in those without.  CSF penicillin levels ranged from 12 to 61 units/mL in the seizure group with the highest CSF levels, compared to 7.8 units/mL in the group without seizures.
Frequency not reported: Overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms (e.g., Candida), fatigue, asthenia, pain, aggravation of existing disorders
Frequency not reported: Vulvovaginitis
Frequency not reported: Auditory hallucinations, visual hallucinations
Frequency not reported: Hypoxia, apnea, dyspnea
It is possible that some side effects of penicillin v potassium may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Fast or irregular breathing
fever
joint pain
lightheadedness or fainting (sudden)
puffiness or swelling around the face
red, scaly skin
shortness of breath
skin rash, hives, itching
Abdominal or stomach cramps and pain (severe)
abdominal tenderness
convulsions (seizures)
decreased amount of urine
diarrhea (watery and severe), which may also be bloody
mental depression
nausea and vomiting
pain at place of injection
sore throat and fever
unusual bleeding or bruising
yellow eyes or skin
Agitation or combativeness
anxiety
confusion
fear of impending death
feeling, hearing, or seeing things that are not real
Diarrhea (mild)
headache
sore mouth or tongue
vaginal itching and discharge
white patches in the mouth and/or on the tongue