Applies to apomorphine: subcutaneous solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by apomorphine. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking apomorphine:
Some of the side effects that can occur with apomorphine may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to apomorphine: compounding powder, subcutaneous solution
Gastrointestinal side effects have included severe nausea (31%) and vomiting (11%) at the recommended doses of apomorphine.[Ref]
In clinical trials conducted in the USA, patients were treated with trimethobenzamide for 3 days prior to initiation of treatment with apomorphine, and were directed to continue it for at least 6 weeks.  The number of patients stopping apomorphine treatment due to nausea was 3% and due to vomiting was 2%.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included syncope (2%).  QT and QTc prolongation have been reported in very rare cases.  Apomorphine may cause dose-related decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure.  Severe orthostatic hypotension, hypotension and/or syncope that resulted in drug withdrawal have been reported in less than 1% of patients in clinical trials.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects have included hallucinations (14%), confusion, paranoid ideation, delusions, disorientation, aggressive behavior, agitation, and delirium.  Slowing down of cognitive performance has been reported after apomorphine use in a small number of patients with Parkinson's disease.  The mechanism of action is not fully understood.[Ref]
Other side effects have included falling asleep during activities of daily living.  There have been reports in the literature of patients suddenly falling asleep without prior warning, soon after receiving apomorphine subcutaneous injections.[Ref]
Local side effects have included reactions at the injection site, such as bruising (16%), granuloma (4%), and pruritus (2%).[Ref]
Drug abuse and dependence have been reported rarely by patients with Parkinson's disease.  These cases are characterized by frequent dosing leading to hallucinations, dyskinesia, and abnormal behavior.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included symptoms resembling neuroleptic malignant syndrome associated with the rapid dose reduction, withdrawal of, or changes in antiparkinsonian therapy.  Migraine attacks have been reported to occur following injection of apomorphine in two postmenopausal women who had experienced migraines before menopause several years earlier.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included priapism in some patients.[Ref]
Drug tolerance to apomorphine after long periods of drug treatment has been observed in some studies.  The decline in dopaminergic responsiveness was most noticeable with drug administrations set at 2-hour intervals.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Apokyn (apomorphine)." Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc, Morgantown, WV. 
2. Ruzicka E, Roth J, Spackova N, Mecir P, Jech R "Apomorphine induced cognitive changes in Parkinson's disease." J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 57 (1994): 998-1001
3. Sabatini U, Rascol O, Rascol A, Montastruc JL "Migraine attacks induced by subcutaneous apomorphine in two migrainous parkinsonian patients." Clin Neuropharmacol 13 (1990): 264-7
4. Gancher ST, Nutt JG, Woodward WR "Time course of tolerance to apomorphine in parkinsonism." Clin Pharmacol Ther 52 (1992): 504-10
Not all side effects for apomorphine may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Chest pain, discomfort, or pressure
chills
cold sweats
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or light-headedness when getting up from lying or sitting position
falling asleep during activity
mood or mental changes
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
swelling
twitching, twisting, uncontrolled repetitive movements of tongue, lips, face, arms, or legs


Arm, back, neck or jaw pain or discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
fainting
fast or irregular heartbeat
low blood pressure or pulse
nausea
shortness of breath
sweating
unconsciousness
vomiting


Irregular heartbeat
recurrent fainting


Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at injection site
blurred vision
dizziness
drowsiness
runny nose
sleepiness
yawning


Painful or prolonged erection of the penis

