Commonly reported side effects of apremilast include: weight loss. Other side effects include: diarrhea, headache, and nausea.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to apremilast: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by apremilast. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking apremilast:
Some of the side effects that can occur with apremilast may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to apremilast: oral tablet
The most commonly reported side effects included diarrhea, headache, and nausea.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hypersensitivity[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, upper abdominal painFrequency not reported: Frequent bowel movement, gastroesophageal reflux disease, dyspepsia[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Upper respiratory tract infection, nasopharyngitisFrequency not reported: Cough[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Rash[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Weight decrease, decreased appetite[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): HeadacheFrequency not reported: Migraine[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Otezla (apremilast)." Celgene Corporation, Summit, NJ. 
Not all side effects for apremilast may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Changes in behavior
discouragement
feeling sad or empty
irritability
lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
thoughts of killing oneself
tiredness
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping


Fast heartbeat
fever
hives, itching, or rash
hoarseness
irritation
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
redness of the skin
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, hands, or feet
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing or swallowing
weight loss


Body aches or pain
chills
cough
diarrhea
ear congestion
headache
headache, severe and throbbing
loss of voice
nausea
sneezing
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose


Acid or sour stomach
back pain
belching
burning, itching, pain in the hairy areas, pus at the root of the hair
decreased appetite
heartburn
indigestion
muscle aches
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
upper abdominal or stomach pain
vomiting

