Generic Name: triamcinolone topical
Applies to triamcinolone topical: topical application cream, topical application lotion, topical application ointment, topical application spray
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by triamcinolone topical (the active ingredient contained in Aristocort A). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking triamcinolone topical:
Some of the side effects that can occur with triamcinolone topical may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to triamcinolone topical: mucous membrane paste, topical cream, topical kit, topical lotion, topical ointment, topical spray
The most commonly reported side effects were burning, itching, irritation, and dryness.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Burning, itching, irritation, dryness[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, blistering or peeling not present prior to therapy, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin and oral mucosa, secondary infection, atrophy of the skin and oral mucosa, striae, and miliaria[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hyperglycemia, glucosuria[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Intracranial hypertension (including bulging fontanelles, headaches, bilateral papilledema)[Ref]
1. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
2. "Product Information. Aristocort Topical (triamcinolone topical)." Fujisawa, Deerfield, IL. 
3. "Product Information. Kenalog (triamcinolone topical)." Westwood Squibb Pharmaceutical Corporation, Buffalo, NY. 
Not all side effects for Aristocort A may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Blistering, burning, crusting, dryness, or flaking of the skin
irritation
itching, scaling, severe redness, soreness, or swelling of the skin
redness and scaling around the mouth
thinning of the skin with easy bruising, especially when used on the face or where the skin folds together (e.g. between the fingers)


Acne or pimples
burning and itching of the skin with pinhead-sized red blisters
burning, itching, and pain in hairy areas, or pus at the root of the hair
increased hair growth on the forehead, back, arms, and legs
lightening of normal skin color
lightening of treated areas of dark skin
reddish purple lines on the arms, face, legs, trunk, or groin
softening of the skin

