Generic Name: ipratropium
Common side effects of Atrovent HFA include: upper respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection, bronchitis, exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and sinusitis. Other side effects include: cough, dyspepsia, and flu-like symptoms.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to ipratropium: inhalation aerosol liquid, inhalation aerosol powder, inhalation solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by ipratropium (the active ingredient contained in Atrovent HFA). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking ipratropium:
Some of the side effects that can occur with ipratropium may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to ipratropium: compounding powder, inhalation aerosol, inhalation solution
Most common adverse reactions were bronchitis, COPD exacerbation, dyspnea, headache[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Headache, dizziness[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Skin rash, pruritus, angioedema (including that of tongue, lips and face), urticarial (including giant urticaria), laryngospasm and anaphylactic reactions[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Precipitation or worsening of narrow-angle glaucoma, glaucoma, halo vision, conjunctival hyperemia, corneal edema, acute eye pain, blurred visionPostmarketing reports: Mydriasis, increased intraocular pressure[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infectionPostmarketing reports: Urinary retention[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Bronchitis, COPD exacerbation, sinusitisCommon (1% to 10%): Dyspnea, sinusitis, cough, rhinitis, upper respiratory infectionPostmarketing reports: Cough, bronchospasm (including paradoxical bronchospasm)[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hypotension, palpitations, tachycardiaPostmarketing reports: Supraventricular tachycardia, atrial fibrillation, increased heart rate[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Dyspepsia, dry mouth, nauseaUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Taste perversion (bitter taste)Frequency not reported: Dry throat, constipation, throat irritation, stomatitis, mouth edemaPostmarketing reports: Gastrointestinal distress (diarrhea, nausea, vomiting), pharyngeal edema, gastrointestinal motility disorders[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Back pain
Common (1% to 10%): Influenza-like symptomsPostmarketing reports: Accommodation disorder
1. "Ipratropium." Med Lett Drugs Ther 29 (1987): 71-2
2. Pakes GE, Brogden RN, Heel RC, Speight TM, Avery GS "Ipratropium bromide: a review of its pharmacological properties and therapeutic efficacy in asthma and chronic bronchitis." Drugs 20 (1980): 237-66
3. "Product Information. Atrovent (ipratropium)." Boehringer-Ingelheim, Ridgefield, CT. 
4. Anderson WM "Hemodynamic and non-bronchial effects of ipratropium bromide." Am J Med 81 (1986): 45-53
5. Massey KL, Gotz VP "Ipratropium bromide." Drug Intell Clin Pharm 19 (1985): 5-12
6. Gross NJ "Ipratropium bromide." N Engl J Med 319 (1988): 486-94
7. Braun SR, Levy SF "Comparison of ipratropium bromide and albuterol in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: a three-center study." Am J Med 91 (1991): s28-32
8. Levin DC, Little KS, Laughlin KR, Galbraith JM, Gustman PM, Murphy D, Kram JA, Hardie G, Reuter C, Ostransky D, Mcfarland K "Addition of anticholinergic solution prolongs bronchodilator effect of beta(2) agonists in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease." Am J Med 100 Suppl (1996): s40-8
9. Cabana MD, Johnson H, Lee CKK, Helfaer M "Transient anisocoria secondary to nebulized ipratropium bromide." Clin Pediat 37 (1998): 445-7
10. Kizer KM, Bess DT, Bedford NK "Blurred vision from ipratropium bromide." Am J Health Syst Pharm 56 (1999): 914
11. Verheijen-Breemhaar L, Bogaard JM, Hilvering C "Comparison of the bronchodilatory action and side-effects of ipratropium bromide and thiazinamium methyl sulphate: a long-term, double-blind, crossover trial in patients with chronic bronchitis." Pharmatherapeutica 3 (1982): 180-7
12. Pras E, Stienlauf S, Pinkhas J, Sidi Y "Urinary retention associated with ipratropium bromide." DICP 25 (1991): 939-40
13. Lozewicz S "Bladder outflow obstruction induced by ipratropium bromide." Postgrad Med J 65 (1989): 260-1
14. O'Driscoll BR "Supraventricular tachycardia caused by nebulised ipratropium bromide." Thorax 44 (1989): 312
Not all side effects for Atrovent HFA may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
cough producing mucus
difficult, burning, or painful urination
difficulty with breathing
frequent urge to urinate
lower back or side pain
shortness of breath
tightness in the chest
wheezing


Body aches or pain
chills
cough
ear congestion
fever
headache
loss of voice
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness


Constipation (continuing) or lower abdominal pain or bloating
fainting
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
severe eye pain
skin rash or hives
swelling of the face, lips, or eyelids


Blindness
blurred vision
confusion
decrease in the frequency of urination
decrease in the urine volume
decreased vision
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
hives or welts
itching
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
nausea or vomiting
noisy breathing
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
redness of the skin
redness of the white part of the eyes or inside of the eyelids
sweating
tearing


Back pain
dryness of the mouth
unpleasant taste


Acid or sour stomach
belching
burning eyes
diarrhea
general feeling of discomfort or illness
heartburn
indigestion
joint pain
loss of appetite
muscle aches and pains
nervousness
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
shivering
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
trembling
trouble sleeping

