Generic Name: tretinoin topical
More frequent side effects include: exfoliation of skin, stinging of the skin, localized warm feeling, and mild erythema.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to tretinoin topical: topical cream, topical gel/jelly, topical liquid, topical solution
In some animal studies, tretinoin has been shown to cause skin tumors to develop faster when the treated area is exposed to ultraviolet light (sunlight or artificial sunlight from a sunlamp). Other studies have not shown the same result and more studies need to be done. It is not known if tretinoin causes skin tumors to develop faster in humans.
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by tretinoin topical (the active ingredient contained in Avita). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking tretinoin topical, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some of the side effects that can occur with tretinoin topical may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:
The side effects will go away after you stop using tretinoin. On the rare chance that your skin color changes, this effect may last for several months before your skin color returns to normal.


Applies to tretinoin topical: topical cream, topical gel, topical kit, topical liquid
Cream:Very common (10% or more): Severe skin irritation (Up to 32%)Frequency not reported: Mild irritation, peeling/skin exfoliation, erythema, pruritus, blistering, pain, crusting, tenderness, dry skin, burning/warmth/stinging, photosensitivity/increased sensitivity to lightPostmarketing reports: Temporary hyper/hypopigmentation, rash, skin atrophyGel:Very common (10% or more): Dry skin (Up to 16%), peeling/scaling/flaking skin (Up to 12%)Common (1% to 10%): Burning sensation, erythema, pruritus, skin pain, sunburnFrequency not reported: Blistering/crusting skinPostmarketing reports: Temporary hypo/hyperpigmentation, increased susceptibility to sunlightMicrosphere Gel:Common (1% to 10%): Skin irritation, skin burning, erythema, dermatitisFrequency not reported: Peeling, dryness, stinging, itchingPostmarketing reports: Temporary hypo/hyperpigmentation[Ref]
Erythema, peeling, dryness, burning/stinging, and/or itching occurred most frequently during the first 2 weeks of therapy.Most of the dermatologic side effects were mild in severity (approximately 63%), and approximately 34% were of moderate severity.Dry, peeling, scaling, and/or flaking skin occurred most often in the gel formulation.[Ref]
Cream:Frequency not reported: Reversible liver function test changes (bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, ALT, AST)[Ref]
Cream:Frequency not reported: Thymol turbidity elevations, increased flocculation[Ref]
Cream:Postmarketing reports: Edema/swelling of application site[Ref]
Cream:Frequency not reported: Allergic contact dermatitisPostmarketing reports: Allergic reaction[Ref]
1. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
2. "Product Information. Retin-A (tretinoin)." Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation, Raritan, NJ. 
3. "Product Information. Renova (tretinoin topical)." Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Titusville, NJ. 
4. "Product Information. Avita (tretinoin topical)." Penederm Inc, Foster City, CA. 
Not all side effects for Avita may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Burning feeling or stinging skin (severe)
 lightening of skin of treated area, unexpected
 peeling of skin (severe)
redness of skin (severe) 
unusual dryness of skin (severe)


Darkening of treated skin


Burning feeling, stinging, or tingling of skin (mild)—lasting for a short time after first applying the medicine
 chapping or slight peeling of skin (mild)
redness of skin (mild)
unusual dryness of skin (mild)
unusually warm skin (mild)

