Generic Name: dutasteride
Applies to dutasteride: oral capsule liquid filled
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by dutasteride (the active ingredient contained in Avodart). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking dutasteride:
Some of the side effects that can occur with dutasteride may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to dutasteride: oral capsule
Common (1% to 10%): Impotence, decreased libido, ejaculation disorders, breast disorders Postmarketing reports: Testicular pain and swelling[Ref]
-Impotence, decreased libido, and ejaculation disorders may persist after treatment discontinuation; this drug's role in this persistence is unknown.-Ejaculation disorders included anorgasmia, retrograde ejaculation, decreased semen volume, decreased orgasmic sensation, abnormal orgasm, delayed ejaculation, ejaculation failure, and premature ejaculation.-Breast disorders include breast enlargement, gynecomastia, breast swelling, breast pain, breast tenderness, nipple pain, and nipple swelling.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): High-grade prostate cancerFrequency not reported: Male breast cancer[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Cardiac failure[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Alopecia (primarily body hair loss), hypertrichosis[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Dizziness, nervous system disorders[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., rash, pruritus, urticaria, localized edema, serious skin reactions, angioedema)[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Depressed mood[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Duagen (dutasteride)." GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare, Pittsburgh, PA. 
Not all side effects for Avodart may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Chest pain or discomfort
dilated neck veins
extreme fatigue
irregular breathing
irregular heartbeat
shortness of breath
swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or lower legs
weight gain
wheezing


Blistering, flaking, or peeling of the skin
cough
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
hives or welts
itching skin
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
redness of the skin
skin rash
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
wheezing


Abnormal ejaculation
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
decreased sexual performance or desire
impotence
inability to have or keep an erection
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
pain, soreness, swelling, or discharge from the breast or breasts

