Generic Name: avibactam / ceftazidime
Applies to avibactam / ceftazidime: intravenous powder for solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by avibactam / ceftazidime. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking avibactam / ceftazidime, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with avibactam / ceftazidime may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to avibactam / ceftazidime: intravenous powder for injection
The most common side effects reported in the phase 2 complicated intraabdominal infection (cIAI) trial were vomiting and nausea.  Serious side effects were reported in 9 of 101 patients using this drug with metronidazole compared with 11 of 102 patients using meropenem.  The most common side effects leading to discontinuation of this drug were skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders.  In a phase 3 cIAI trial, death occurred in 13 of 529 patients using this drug with metronidazole compared with 8 of 529 patients using meropenem.The most common side effects reported in the phase 2 complicated urinary tract infection trial were constipation and anxiety.  Serious side effects were reported in 6 of 68 patients using this drug compared with 2 of 67 patients using imipenem-cilastatin.  This drug was discontinued prematurely in 1 patient due to accidental overdose and 1 patient due to atrial fibrillation.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Vomiting (up to 14%)Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, constipation, abdominal pain, upper abdominal painFrequency not reported: Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea[Ref]
In a phase 3 cIAI trial, death occurred in 2.5% of patients using this drug with metronidazole and 1.5% of patients using meropenem.  In a subgroup of patients with baseline CrCl 30 to 50 mL/min, death occurred in 8 of 31 patients using this drug with metronidazole and 3 of 35 patients using meropenem; patients using this drug received a 33% lower daily dose than is currently recommended for this patient population.  In patients with baseline CrCl greater than 50 mL/min, death occurred in 5 of 498 patients using this drug with metronidazole and 5 of 494 patients using meropenem.  Cause of death varied; contributing factors included progression of underlying infection, baseline pathogens isolated that were unlikely to respond to study drug, and delayed surgical intervention.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Seroconversion from negative to positive direct Coombs test result, deathFrequency not reported: Decreased clinical response, accidental overdoseCeftazidime:-Frequency not reported: Candidiasis[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Anxiety[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Increased blood alkaline phosphataseFrequency not reported: HypokalemiaCeftazidime:-Frequency not reported: Increased blood lactate dehydrogenase[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Increased blood ALTFrequency not reported: Increased GGTCeftazidime:-Frequency not reported: Jaundice[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): DizzinessCeftazidime:-Frequency not reported: Dysgeusia, paresthesia, seizures, nonconvulsive status epilepticus, encephalopathy, coma, asterixis, neuromuscular excitability, myoclonia[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Acute renal failure, renal impairmentCeftazidime:-Frequency not reported: Tubulointerstitial nephritis[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Rash, skin and subcutaneous tissue disordersBeta-lactam antibacterial drugs:-Frequency not reported: Serious skin reactionsCeftazidime:-Frequency not reported: Angioedema, erythema multiforme, pruritus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Eosinophilia, thrombocytopenia, prolonged prothrombin timeCeftazidime:-Frequency not reported: Agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, lymphocytosis, neutropenia, thrombocytosis[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Atrial fibrillation[Ref]
Beta-lactam antibacterial drugs:-Frequency not reported: Serious and sometimes fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions[Ref]
Ceftazidime:-Frequency not reported: Infusion-site inflammation, injection-site hematoma, injections-site phlebitis, injection-site thrombosis[Ref]
Ceftazidime:-Frequency not reported: Vaginal inflammation[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Avycaz (avibactam-cefTAZidime)." Forest Pharmaceuticals, St. Louis, MO. 
Not all side effects for Avycaz may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Agitation
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
bluish color changes in skin color
chest pain
chills
coma
confusion
convulsions
cough
decreased urine
dizziness
fever
headache
hostility
increased thirst
irregular heartbeat
lethargy
loss of appetite
muscle pain or cramps
muscle twitching
nausea or vomiting
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
painful or difficult urination
pinpoint red spots on the skin
rapid weight gain
seizures
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stupor
swelling of the face, ankles, hands, foot, or leg
swollen glands
tenderness
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness


Difficulty swallowing
fast heartbeat
hives, itching, or skin rash
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
tightness in the chest


Abdominal or stomach pain
diarrhea
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)


Change in taste
loss of taste
redness of the skin
white patches in the mouth or throat or on the tongue
white patches with diaper rash

