Generic Name: norethindrone
Common side effects of Aygestin include: ectopic pregnancy.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to norethindrone: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by norethindrone (the active ingredient contained in Aygestin). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking norethindrone:
Some of the side effects that can occur with norethindrone may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to norethindrone: compounding powder, oral tablet
Genitourinary side effects have included breakthrough bleeding, spotting, change in menstrual flow, amenorrhea, changes in cervical erosion and secretion, and breast tenderness.  Changes in the cervical squamocolumnar junction and cervical secretions have also been reported.[Ref]
Endocrine side effects have included increases in PBI, BEI levels, and a decrease in T3 uptake.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included an increase in prothrombin time and clotting factors VII, VIII, IX, and X.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included hepatic adenomas and cholestatic jaundice.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included acne, melasma, chloasma, and pruritus.[Ref]
General side effects have included weight gain/loss and hirsutism.[Ref]
The psychiatric side effects have included mental depression.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included edema[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included insomnia, headache and dizziness.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Nor-QD (norethindrone)" Watson Laboratories Inc, Corona, CA. 
2. "Product Information. Aygestin (norethindrone)." ESI Lederle Generics, Philadelphia, PA. 
3. "Product Information. Micronor (norethindrone)" Ortho McNeil Pharmaceutical, Raritan, NJ. 
Not all side effects for Aygestin may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Frequent and irregular bleeding
menstrual changes


Abdominal or stomach pain
blindness
blue-yellow color blindness
blurred vision
breast pain
changes in menstrual period
changes in vision
chills
clay-colored stools
confusion
cough
dark urine
decreased vision
diarrhea
difficulty with swallowing
discouragement
dizziness
double vision
eye pain
fast heartbeat
feeling sad or empty
fever
general tiredness and weakness
headache
heavy non-menstrual vaginal bleeding
hives, itching, or rash
irritability
lack of appetite
light-colored stools
light vaginal bleeding between regular menstrual periods
loss of interest or pleasure
migraine headache
nausea and vomiting
numbness of the hands
pain, redness, or swelling in the arm or leg
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
swelling
tightness in the chest
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
unpleasant breath odor
unusual tiredness or weakness
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes and skin


Breast tenderness
increased hair growth, especially on the face
pimples
weight gain


Brown, blotchy spots on exposed skin
enlarged breasts
hair loss or thinning of the hair
mood swings
nervousness
weight changes

