Generic Name: azithromycin ophthalmic
Applies to azithromycin ophthalmic: ophthalmic solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by azithromycin ophthalmic (the active ingredient contained in Azasite). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking azithromycin ophthalmic:
Some of the side effects that can occur with azithromycin ophthalmic may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to azithromycin ophthalmic: ophthalmic solution
Very common (10% or more): Ocular discomfort (pruritus, burning, stinging) upon instillationCommon (1% to 10%): Eye irritation, blurred vision, sticky eye sensation, foreign body sensation upon instillationUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Conjunctival hyperemia, lacrimation increased upon instillation, erythema of the eyelidFrequency not reported: Ocular reactions (burning, irritation upon instillation, contact dermatitis, corneal erosion, dry eye, eye pain, itching, ocular discharge, punctate keratitis, reduced visual acuity)Postmarketing reports: Conjunctivitis, allergic conjunctivitis, keratitis, eyelid eczema, eyelid edema, eye allergy[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Hypersensitivity[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hives/urticaria, rash, facial swelling, periocular swellingPostmarketing reports: Angioedema[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Dysgeusia[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Nasal congestion, sinusitis[Ref]
1. "Product Information. AzaSite (azithromycin ophthalmic)." Inspire Pharmaceuticals Inc, Durham, NC. 
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
Not all side effects for Azasite may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Burning, redness, stinging, or other eye irritation


Blistering, burning, crusting, dryness, or flaking of the skin
blurred vision
cough
decreased vision
discharge from the eye
fever
headache
hives or welts
itching, scaling, severe redness, soreness, or swelling of the skin
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
painful irritation of the clear front part of the eye
shortness of breath or troubled breathing
skin rash
stuffy or runny nose
swelling of the face
swelling or puffiness of the eyes
tightness of the chest or wheezing


Change in taste
dry eyes
loss of taste

