Generic Name: cyanocobalamin
Applies to cyanocobalamin: intramuscular solution
Other dosage forms:
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by cyanocobalamin (the active ingredient contained in B-12). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking cyanocobalamin, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with cyanocobalamin may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to cyanocobalamin: compounding powder, injectable solution, intramuscular solution, nasal gel, nasal spray, oral tablet, oral tablet extended release, sublingual lozenge, sublingual tablet
Frequency not reported: Congestive heart failure, peripheral vascular thrombosis, cardiac arrest, low blood pressure[Ref]
Patients sensitized to the injectable product are often able to tolerate the oral route without problems.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Anaphylactic shock and death, allergic hypersensitivity reactions[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Mild transient diarrhea, prolonged abdominal pain, prolonged nausea or vomiting[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Severe dizziness, drowsiness, muscular paralysis, loss of consciousness[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Itching, transitory exanthema, acneiform eruptions, bullous eruptions[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Pulmonary edema[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hypokalemia[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Polycythemia vera[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Vision problems[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Feeling of swelling of entire body[Ref]
1. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
2. "Product Information. Cyanocobalamin (cyanocobalamin)." West-Ward Pharmaceutical Corporation, Eatontown, NJ. 
3. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
Not all side effects for B-12 may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
nasal gel/jelly, nasal spray

Abdominal or stomach pain
bleeding from the gums or nose
blue lips and fingernails
chest pain
cough
coughing that sometimes produces a pink frothy sputum
decreased urine output
difficult, fast, noisy breathing, sometimes with wheezing
difficulty with swallowing
dilated neck veins
dizziness
extreme fatigue
eye pain
fast heartbeat
headache
hives, itching, or skin rash
increased sweating
irregular breathing
irregular heartbeat
pale skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
ringing in the ears
swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or lower legs
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
weight gain


Diarrhea
skin rash with a general disease

