Gastrointestinal side effects have been reported in 75% of treated patients (vs 73% in placebo treated patients), making them the most frequently reported side effect with the use of basiliximab.  Other gastrointestinal effects including constipation, nausea, diarrhea, abdominal pain, vomiting, dyspepsia, and moniliasis have been reported in at least 10% of patients.  Enlarged abdomen, flatulence, gastrointestinal disorder, gastroenteritis, GI hemorrhage, gum hyperplasia, melena, esophagitis, and ulcerative stomatitis have been reported in between 3% and 10% of patients.
Hypersensitivity side effects including seventeen cases of severe acute hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylaxis) have been reported.  Reactions may include hypotension, tachycardia, cardiac failure, dyspnea, wheezing, bronchospasm, pulmonary edema, respiratory failure, urticaria, rash, pruritus, and/or sneezing.
If a severe hypersensitivity reaction occurs, it is recommended that therapy with basiliximab be permanently discontinued.
Metabolic side effects including hyperkalemia, hypokalemia, hyperglycemia, hyperuricemia, hypophosphatemia, hypocalcemia, weight increase, hypercholesterolemia, and acidosis have been reported in at least 10% of patients.  Dehydration, diabetes mellitus, fluid overload, hypercalcemia, hyperlipidemia, hypoglycemia, hypoproteinemia, and hypomagnesemia have been reported in between 3% and 10% of patients.
Nervous system side effects including headache, tremor, and dizziness have been reported in at least 10% of patients.  Hypoesthesia, neuropathy, and paraesthesia have been reported in between 3% and 10% of patients.
Genitourinary side effects including dysuria, increased nonprotein nitrogen, and urinary tract infection have been reported in at least 10% of patients.  Male genital edema, impotence, albuminuria, bladder disorder, hematuria, frequent micturition, oliguria, abnormal renal function, renal tubular necrosis, surgery, urethral disorder, and urinary retention have been reported in between 3% and 10% of patients.
General side effects including pain, peripheral edema, edema, fever, viral infection, leg edema, and asthenia have been reported in at least 10% of patients.  Accidental trauma, chest pain, increased drug level, face edema, fatigue, infection, malaise, generalized edema, rigors, and sepsis have been reported in between 3% and 10% of patients.
Cardiovascular side effects including hypertension have been reported in at least 10% of patients.  Angina pectoris, cardiac failure, chest pain, abnormal heart sounds, aggravated hypertension, arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, tachycardia, vascular disorder, and hypotension have been reported in between 3% and 10% of patients.
Respiratory side effects including dyspnea, upper respiratory tract infection, coughing, rhinitis, and pharyngitis have been reported in at least 10% of patients.  Bronchitis, bronchospasm, abnormal chest sounds, pneumonia, pulmonary disorder, pulmonary edema, and sinusitis have been reported in between 3% and 10% of patients.
Dermatologic side effects including surgical wound complications and acne have been reported in at least 10% of patients.  Cyst, herpes simplex, herpes zoster, hypertrichosis, pruritus, rash, skin disorder, and skin ulceration have been reported in between 3% and 10% of patients.
Psychiatric side effects including insomnia have been reported in at least 10% of patients.  Agitation, anxiety, and depression have been reported in between 3% and 10% of patients.
Musculoskeletal side effects including leg pain and back pain have been reported in at least 10% of patients.  Arthralgia, arthropathy, bone fractures, cramps, hernia, and myalgia have been reported in between 3% and 10% of patients.
Hematologic side effects including anemia have been reported in at least 10% of patients.  Hematoma, hemorrhage, purpura, thrombocytopenia, polycythemia, and thrombosis have been reported in between 3% and 10% of patients.
Endocrine side effects including increased glucocorticoids have been reported in between 3% and 10% of patients.
Ocular side effects including cataract, conjunctivitis, and abnormal vision have been reported in between 3% and 10% of patients.
Abdominal pain
back pain
coughing
dizziness
 fever or chills
loss of energy or weakness
painful urination
shortness of breath 
sore throat
swelling of the ankles, body, face, feet or lower legs
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
vomiting
white patches in the mouth or throat or on the tongue
Abnormal vision
agitation
anxiety
bleeding, tender, or enlarged gums
blood in the stool
 bruising
chest pain
depression 
difficulty in urinating
 fatigue
itching
numbness or pain in the legs
skin rash
 sores in the mouth
“stocking and gloves” sensation of the hands or feet
tingling
Acne
constipation
 diarrhea
headache
heartburn 
nausea
trouble in sleeping 
weight gain
Excessive hair growth
joint pain
muscle pain