Generic Name: suvorexant
Common side effects of Belsomra include: drowsiness.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to suvorexant: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by suvorexant (the active ingredient contained in Belsomra). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking suvorexant:
Some of the side effects that can occur with suvorexant may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to suvorexant: oral tablet
The most common adverse reaction was somnolence.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Diarrhea, dry mouth[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Headache, somnolence, dizziness[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Abnormal dreams[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Cough, upper respiratory tract infection[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Belsomra (suvorexant)." Merck & Company Inc, Whitehouse Station, NJ. 
Not all side effects for Belsomra may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Sleepiness or unusual drowsiness 


Unusual or abnormal dreams


Changes in behavior
discouragement
fear or nervousness
feeling sad or empty
irritability
lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
loss of memory
problems with memory
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
temporary inability to move or talk for up to several minutes while you are going to sleep or wake up
temporary weakness in your legs
thoughts of killing oneself
tiredness
trouble concentrating


Headache


 Body aches or pain
chills
cough
diarrhea
difficulty with breathing
dizziness
dry mouth
ear congestion
fever
loss of voice
nasal congestion
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness

