Generic Name: probenecid
Applies to probenecid: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by probenecid (the active ingredient contained in Benemid). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking probenecid:
If any of the following side effects occur while taking probenecid, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some of the side effects that can occur with probenecid may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to probenecid: oral tablet
In therapeutic doses, probenecid (the active ingredient contained in Benemid) is generally well tolerated and has a low incidence of side effects.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Anaphylaxis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria, pruritus[Ref]
Frequency not provided: Precipitation of acute gouty arthritis[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Uric acid stones with or without hematuria, costovertebral pain, urinary frequency[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Nephrotic syndrome, with or without renal failure[Ref]
Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) deficiency may increase the risk of probenecid-induced hemolytic anemia in some patients.  However, probenecid (the active ingredient contained in Benemid) has also been implicated in at least two cases of immune-mediated hemolytic anemia.  In both cases, serum antibodies reacted with red blood cells only in the presence of probenecid.  In one patient, a generalized rash, fever, malaise, and anorexia were also present.[Ref]
Rarely (less than 0.1%): Aplastic anemia, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia Frequency not reported: Anemia, hemolytic anemia (which could be related to genetic deficiency of glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase (G6PD) in red blood cells)[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Anorexia, nausea, vomiting, sore gums[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Hepatic necrosis[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Headache, dizziness[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Toxic epidermal necrolysis (in combination with colchicine) Frequency not reported: Dermatitis, alopecia, flushing[Ref]
1. Gutman AB "Uricosuric drugs with special reference to probenecid and sulfinpyrazone." Adv Pharmacol 4 (1966): 91-142
2. Myers KW, Katial RK, Engler RJM "Probenecid hypersensitivity in AIDS: a case report." Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol 80 (1998): 416-8
3. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
4. "Product Information. Probenecid (probenecid)." Marlex Pharmaceuticals, New Castle, DE. 
5. Kickler TS, Buck S, Ness P, et al "Probenecid induced immune hemolytic anemia." J Rheumatol 13 (1986): 208-9
6. Scott JT, O'Brien PK "Probenecid, nephrotic syndrome, and renal failure." Ann Rheum Dis 27 (1968): 249-52
7. Hertz P, Yager H, Richardson JA "Probenecid-induced nephrotic syndrome." Arch Pathol 94 (1972): 241-3
8. Sosler SD, Behzad O, Garratty G, et al "Immune hemolytic anemia associated with probenecid." Am J Clin Pathol 84 (1985): 391-4
Not all side effects for Benemid may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Fast or irregular breathing
puffiness or swellings of the eyelids or around the eyes
 shortness of breath, troubled breathing, tightness in chest, or wheezing
changes in the skin color of the face occurring together with any of the other side effects listed here
or skin rash, hives, or itching occurring together with any of the other side effects listed here


Bloody urine
difficult or painful urination 
lower back or side pain (especially if severe or sharp)
skin rash, hives, or itching (occurring without other signs of an allergic reaction)


Cloudy urine
cough or hoarseness
fast or irregular breathing
fever
pain in back and/or ribs
sores, ulcers, or white spots on lips or in mouth
sore throat and fever with or without chills
sudden decrease in the amount of urine
swelling of face, fingers, feet, and/or lower legs
swollen and/or painful glands 
unusual bleeding or bruising
 unusual tiredness or weakness
yellow eyes or skin 
weight gain


Headache
joint pain, redness, or swelling 
loss of appetite
nausea or vomiting (mild)


Dizziness
flushing or redness of face (occurring without any signs of an allergic reaction)
 frequent urge to urinate
sore gums

