Applies to benzonatate: oral capsule, oral capsule liquid filled
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by benzonatate. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking benzonatate:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking benzonatate, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with benzonatate may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to benzonatate: oral capsule
The most serious side effects reported were bronchospasm, laryngospasm, and cardiovascular collapse.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Bronchospasm, laryngospasm, cardiovascular collapse, hypersensitivity[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Sedation, headache, dizziness, mental confusion, visual hallucinations.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Nasal congestion, numbness of the chest[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Constipation, nausea, GI upset[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Pruritus, skin eruptions[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Sensation of burning in the eyes[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Vague "chilly" sensation[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Tessalon (benzonatate)." Forest Pharmaceuticals, St. Louis, MO. 
Not all side effects for benzonatate may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Confusion
difficult breathing
difficulty with speaking
seeing things that are not there
shortness of breath
tightness in the chest
wheezing


Change in consciousness
convulsions (seizures)
loss of consciousness
no blood pressure or pulse
restlessness
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
stopping of the heart
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
unconsciousness


Burning sensation in the eyes
constipation
dizziness (mild)
drowsiness (mild)
headache
itching
nausea or vomiting
skin rash
stuffy nose

