Generic Name: benzoyl peroxide topical
Applies to benzoyl peroxide topical: topical bar, topical cream, topical foam, topical gel/jelly, topical liquid, topical lotion, topical pad, topical soap, topical solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by benzoyl peroxide topical (the active ingredient contained in Benzac AC). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking benzoyl peroxide topical:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking benzoyl peroxide topical, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with benzoyl peroxide topical may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to benzoyl peroxide topical: compounding powder, topical bar, topical cream, topical foam, topical gel, topical kit, topical liquid, topical lotion, topical pad
Very common (10% or more): Peeling, application site erythemaCommon (1% to 10%): Dryness, pruritus, contact sensitization reactionsUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Burning sensationFrequency not reported: Contact dermatitis, application site rash, application site discoloration, application site reactions (irritation and pain)[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Allergic reactions, including application site hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis[Ref]
The most commonly reported side effects were peeling and application site erythema.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Swelling of the face[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Triaz (benzoyl peroxide topical)." Medicis Dermatatologics Inc, Phoenix, AZ. 
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
Not all side effects for Benzac AC may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Painful irritation of skin, including burning, blistering, crusting, itching, severe redness, or swelling
skin rash


Difficult breathing
fainting
hives
itching
swelling of the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
tightness in the throat


Burning, itching, scaling, redness, or swelling of skin (severe)


Dryness or peeling of the skin (may occur after a few days)
feeling of warmth, mild stinging, and redness of the skin

