Applies to benzphetamine: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by benzphetamine. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking benzphetamine:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking benzphetamine, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with benzphetamine may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to benzphetamine: oral tablet
Frequency not reported: Palpitation, tachycardia, elevated blood pressure, cardiomyopathy, ischemic cardiac events with chronic amphetamine use[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Overstimulation, restlessness, dizziness, tremor, sweating, headache[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Insomnia, psychotic episodes, depression following drug withdrawal[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Libido changes[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Dry mouth, unpleasant taste, nausea, diarrhea, other GI disturbances[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Urticaria, other allergic skin reactions[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Didrex (benzphetamine)" Pharmacia and Upjohn, Kalamazoo, MI. 
Not all side effects for benzphetamine may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Agitation
anxiety
confusion
convulsions (seizures)
dizziness
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
feeling lightheaded or faint
hallucinations
headache
hives or welts
irritability
itching
lightheadedness
mood or other mental changes
nervousness
nightmares
numbness or tingling in the arms or legs
redness of skin
restlessness
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
skin rash
sleeplessness
sweating
trembling of the hands or feet
trouble with sleeping
trouble with thinking, speaking, or walking
unable to sleep
unusual feeling of excitement
weakness


Chest discomfort or pain
difficulty breathing
discouragement
feeling sad or empty
lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
severe mental changes
shortness of breath
swelling of the feet or lower legs
trouble with concentrating
trouble with breathing
unusual tiredness or weakness


Blurred vision
change in consciousness
dark-colored urine
diarrhea
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly
fever
loss of consciousness
muscle cramps or spasms
muscle pain or stiffness
nausea
nervousness
physical attempt to injure oneself
pounding in the ears
rapid, shallow breathing
severe anxiety or feeling of panic
stomach cramps
violent actions
vomiting


Decrease in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
dry mouth
inability to have or keep an erection
increase in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
increased interest in sexual intercourse
unpleasant taste

