Commonly reported side effects of bicalutamide include: abdominal pain, nausea, and mastalgia. Other side effects include: flu-like symptoms, gynecomastia, vomiting, and anorexia.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to bicalutamide: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by bicalutamide. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking bicalutamide:
Some of the side effects that can occur with bicalutamide may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to bicalutamide: oral tablet
Unless otherwise noted, all data below refer to patients treated concurrently with bicalutamide and a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) analogue (goserelin acetate or leuprolide acetate).[Ref]
Cardiovascular system side effects include the most frequently encountered side effect, hot flashes, which has been reported in approximately 49% of treated patients.  Hypertension has also been reported.[Ref]
General side effects are also very common and have included generalized pain (27%), back pain (15%), asthenia (15%), pelvic pain (13%), and infection (10%).  Abdominal and chest pain, headache, and flu syndrome have also been reported.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal effects are common and have included constipation (17%), nausea (11%), and diarrhea (10%).  Flatulence and vomiting have also been reported.[Ref]
Increased values in liver enzyme tests include increased AST, ALT, or both.  This effect has occurred in approximately 6% of treated patients.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects including severe liver injury leading to hospitalization and death have been reported rarely.  Hepatitis or marked increases in liver enzymes leading to drug discontinuation have been reported in approximately 1% of bicalutamide patients.  One case of fulminant hepatic failure associated with bicalutamide use has also been reported.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects are somewhat common and include nocturia, hematuria, urinary tract infection, impotence, and urinary incontinence.[Ref]
Metabolic effects are somewhat common and include peripheral edema, hyperglycemia, and weight loss.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects include anemia (7%) and decreased white blood cell counts.[Ref]
Renal side effects including new or worsened renal insufficiency (as measured by elevated BUN and creatinine) have been reported.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal complaints include bone pain.  This may be due to underlying disease.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects including dizziness, paresthesia, and insomnia have been reported.[Ref]
Respiratory system side effects including dyspnea have been reported.  Uncommon cases of interstitial lung disease, including interstitial pneumonitis and pulmonary fibrosis have been reported with the use of bicalutamide.  One case of pneumonitis has also been reported.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects including rash and sweating have been reported.[Ref]
Endocrine system side effects including gynecomastia (38%) and breast pain (39%) have been reported with the use of bicalutamide as a single agent.  Several cases of decreases in prostate specific antigen (PSA) after withdrawal of bicalutamide therapy (referred to as antiandrogen withdrawal syndrome) have been reported.[Ref]
Bicalutamide has not been approved for use as monotherapy.In one phase II clinical trial with bicalutamide used as a single agent, breast tenderness, breast swelling, and hot flashes were reported in 63.4%, 52.5%, and 23.6% of treated patients, respectively.Another phase II clinical trial with bicalutamide used as a single agent reported breast pain, and gynecomastia in 76% and 60% of treated patients, respectively.  This study also showed generalized pain in 30% of treated patients, hot flashes in 28%, pelvic pain in 26%, and libido decrease and impotence, both at 25%.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects including angioneurotic edema and urticaria have been reported.[Ref]
1. Soloway MS, Schellhammer PF, Smith JA, Chodak GW, Vogelzang NJ, Kennealey GT "Bicalutamide in the treatment of advanced prostatic carcinoma: a phase II noncomparative multicenter trial evaluating safety, efficacy and long-term endocrine effects of monotherapy." J Urol 154 (1995): 2110-4
2. Freeman SN, Mainwaring WI, Furr BJ "A possible explanation for the peripheral selectivity of a novel non- steroidal pure antiandrogen, Casodex (ICI 176,334)." Br J Cancer 60 (1989): 664-8
3. Schellhammer P, Sharifi R, Block N, Soloway M, Venner P, Patterson AL, Sarosdy M, Vogelzang N, Jones J, Kolvenbag G "A controlled trial of bicalutamide versus flutamide, each in combination with luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone analogue therapy, in patients with advanced prostate cancer. Casodex Combination Study Group." Urology 45 (1995): 745-52
4. Tyrrell CJ "Casodex: a pure non-steroidal anti-androgen used as monotherapy in advanced prostate cancer." Prostate Suppl 4 (1992): 97-104
5. Newling DW "The response of advanced prostatic cancer to a new non-steroidal antiandrogen: results of a multicenter open phase II study of Casodex. European/Australian Co-operative Group." Eur Urol 18 Suppl 3 (1990): 18-21
6. "Multum Information Services, Inc. Expert Review Panel"  
7. "Product Information. Casodex (bicalutamide)." Zeneca Pharmaceuticals, Wilmington, DE. 
8. Bennett CL,  Raisch DW,  Sartor O "Pneumonitis associated with nonsteroidal antiandrogens: presumptive evidence of a class effect." Ann Intern Med 137 (2002): 625
9. Nieh PT "Withdrawal phenomenon with the antiandrogen casodex." J Urol 153 (1995): 1070-2;disc. 1072-3
10. Schellhammer PF, Kolvenbag GJ "Serum PSA decline after Casodex withdrawal." Urology 44 (1994): 790-2
11. Kolvenbag GJCM, Blackledge GRP "Worldwide activity and safety of bicalutamide: a summary review." Urology 47 Suppl (1996): 70-9
12. Small EJ, Carroll PR "Prostate-specific antigen decline after casodex withdrawal: evidence for an antiandrogen withdrawal syndrome." Urology 43 (1994): 408-10
Not all side effects for bicalutamide may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
blood in the urine
blurred vision
body aches or pain
congestion
cough or hoarseness
cough producing mucus
difficult or labored breathing
dizziness
dryness or soreness of the throat
fever or chills
headache
lower back or side pain
nervousness
painful or difficult urination
pounding in the ears
rapid weight gain
runny nose
shortness of breath
slow or fast heartbeat
sweating
tender, swollen glands in the neck
tightness in the chest
tingling of the hands or feet
trouble with swallowing
unusual weight gain or loss
voice changes
wheezing


Abnormal growth filled with fluid or semisolid material
ankle, knee, or great toe joint pain
arm, back, or jaw pain
bleeding from the rectum or bloody stools
blindness
bloody nose
burning while urinating
burning, tingling, numbness, or pain in the hands, arms, feet, or legs
change in bowel habits
chest pain or discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
chills
confusion
decrease in frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
decreased vision
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
difficulty with swallowing or eating
dilated neck veins
dry mouth
fainting
fast or irregular heartbeat
fever
irregular breathing
joint stiffness or swelling
lightheadedness
loss of appetite
lump or swelling in the abdomen
nausea
no blood pressure or pulse
noisy breathing
pain in the neck
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
painful blisters on trunk of the body
persistent non-healing sore
rapid, shallow breathing
reddish patch or irritated area
sensation of pins and needles
shiny bump
stabbing pain
stomach discomfort
stopping of heart
sunken eyes
swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or lower legs
thirst
tumor
unconsciousness
unexplained weight loss
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
weight gain
white, yellow or waxy scar-like area
wrinkled skin
yellow skin or eyes


Hives or welts
itching
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
redness of the skin
skin rash


Acid or sour stomach
belching
breast pain
constipation
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
diarrhea
difficulty with moving
dry skin
hair loss or thinning of the hair
heartburn
inability to have or keep an erection
indigestion
lack or loss of strength
leg cramps
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
loss of strength or energy
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pain or weakness
nervousness
pain in the pelvis
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
passing of gas
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
stomach pain, fullness, or discomfort
stuffy or runny nose
swelling of the breasts or breast soreness in both females and males

