Generic Name: praziquantel
Applies to praziquantel: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by praziquantel (the active ingredient contained in Biltricide). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking praziquantel:
Some of the side effects that can occur with praziquantel may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to praziquantel: compounding powder, oral tablet
Side effects varied according to dose and duration of praziquantel (the active ingredient contained in Biltricide) therapy.  Side effects depended on parasite species, extent of infestation, infection duration, and parasite location in the body.  Side effects occurred earlier and were more frequent and/or serious in patients with severe infestation.Often, it was unclear if praziquantel, an endogenous reaction to parasites dying from the drug, or symptoms of the infestation caused the reported side effects.Side effects included malaise, headache, dizziness, abdominal discomfort (with or without nausea), rise in temperature, and urticaria; generally in order of severity.  Such side effects were more frequent and/or serious in patients with heavy worm burden.
The inflammatory reaction produced by antigenic substances released from dying cysts frequently involved increased intracranial pressure, seizures, severe headaches, nausea, and vomiting.  In areas where Taenia solium was endemic, these reactions may occur as the result of undiagnosed cysticercosis in patients being treated for other parasitic infections.  The duration of the reaction differs among patients.  Delayed reactions have been reported.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Headache, dizzinessCommon (1% to 10%): Vertigo, somnolence (including drowsiness)Very rare (less than 0.01%): SeizuresFrequency not reported: Cerebral inflammatory reactionPostmarketing reports: Convulsion, somnolence, vertigo[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Gastrointestinal and abdominal pains, nausea, vomitingCommon (1% to 10%): DiarrheaFrequency not reported: Abdominal discomfort (with or without nausea), gaggingPostmarketing reports: Abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea, vomiting[Ref]
A syndrome of severe abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea was reported less often during schistosomiasis therapy.Gagging and vomiting have been reported due to the bitter taste of the tablets.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): FatigueCommon (1% to 10%): Feeling unwell (asthenia, malaise), feverFrequency not reported: Rise in temperature, transient edemaVery rare (less than 0.01%): PolyserositisPostmarketing reports: Asthenia, fatigue[Ref]
A 13-year-old male developed Mazzotti reaction after treatment with ivermectin, praziquantel (the active ingredient contained in Biltricide)  and albendazole for presumptive schistosomiasis and strongyloidiasis.  Six days after receiving standard empiric therapy, he developed epigastric pain, vomiting, and urticaria.  This progressed in 4 hours and included fever, general myalgia, and edema of the face, lower extremities, and penis accompanied by urticaria of the arms, legs, and trunk.  He was diagnosed with a Mazzotti reaction and treated with methylprednisolone; symptoms subsided within 12 hours.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): UrticariaCommon (1% to 10%): RashVery rare (less than 0.01%): PruritusFrequency not reported: Mazzotti-like reactionPostmarketing reports: Pruritus, rash[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%)/Postmarketing reports: Anorexia
Common (1% to 10%)/Postmarketing reports: MyalgiaFrequency not reported: Musculoskeletal aches and fatigue[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Mild increases in liver enzymes
Very rare (less than 0.01%): Unspecified arrhythmiasPostmarketing reports: Arrhythmia (including bradycardia, ectopic rhythms, ventricular fibrillation, atrioventricular blocks)
Postmarketing reports: Allergic reaction (generalized hypersensitivity, including polyserositis)
Postmarketing reports: Eosinophilia
1. Flisser A, Madrazo I, Plancarte A, Schantz P, Allan J, Craig P, Sarti E "Neurological symptoms in occult neurocysticercosis after single taeniacidal dose of praziquantel." Lancet 342 (1993): 748
2. Watt G, White NJ, Padre L, Ritter W, Fernando MT, Ranoa CP, Laughlin LW "Praziquantel pharmacokinetics and side effects in Schistosoma japonicum-infected patients with liver disease." J Infect Dis 157 (1988): 530-5
3. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
4. Bada JL, Trevino B, Cabezos J "Convulsive seizures after treatment with praziquantel." Br Med J (Clin Res Ed) 296 (1988): 646
5. "Product Information. Biltricide (praziquantel)." Bayer, West Haven, CT. 
6. Homeida MM, Eltom IA, Sulaiman SM, Ali HM, Bennett JL "Tolerance of two brands of praziquantel." Lancet 2 (1989): 391
7. Leblanc R, Knowles KF, Melanson D, MacLean JD, Rouleau G, Farmer JP "Neurocysticercosis: surgical and medical management with praziquantel." Neurosurgery 18 (1986): 419-27
8. Ciferri F "Delayed CSF reaction to praziquantel." Lancet 1 (1988): 642-3
9. Markwalder K, Hess K, Valavanis A, Witassek F "Cerebral cysticercosis: treatment with praziquantel. Report of two cases." Am J Trop Med Hyg 33 (1984): 273-80
10. McMahon JE "Praziquantel: a new schistosomicide against Schistosoma mansoni." Arzneimittelforschung 31 (1981): 592-4
11. Stelma FF, Talla I, Sow S, Kongs A, Niang M, Polman K, Deelder AM, Gryseels B "Efficacy and side effects of praziquantel in an epidemic focus of schistosoma mansoni." Am J Trop Med Hyg 53 (1995): 167-70
12. Watt G, Baldovino PC, Castro JT, Fernando MT, Ranoa CP "Bloody diarrhoea after praziquantel therapy." Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg 80 (1986): 345-6
13. Polderman AM, Gryseels B, Gerold JL, Mpamila K, Manshande JP "Side effects of praziquantel in the treatment of Schistosoma mansoni in Maniema, Zaire." Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg 78 (1984): 752-4
14. Shorter D,  Hale K,  Elliott E "Mazzotti-like Reaction After Treatment with Praziquantel for Schistosomiasis." Pediatr Infect Dis J 25 (2006): 1087-1088
Not all side effects for Biltricide may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Abdominal or stomach discomfort with or without nausea
abdominal or stomach pain
black, tarry stools
bloody diarrhea
chest pain or discomfort
chills
convulsions
cough
dizziness
fainting
fast, slow, or irregular heartbeat
fever
hives
hoarseness
irritation
itching
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
lightheadedness, dizziness, or fainting
painful or difficult urination
rash
redness of the skin
severe abdominal or stomach pain
shortness of breath
slow or irregular heartbeat
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
sweating
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, hands, or feet
swollen glands
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing or swallowing
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
wheezing


Drowsiness
increased sweating
general feeling of discomfort or illness
nausea or vomiting


Skin rash, hives, or itching


Difficulty with moving
dizziness or lightheadedness
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
headache
hives or welts
joint pain
lack or loss of strength
loss of appetite
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pains or stiffness
redness of the skin
sensation of spinning
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
swollen joints
weight loss

