Generic Name: anthrax vaccine adsorbed
Common side effects of Biothrax include: edema, fatigue, headache, myalgia, nasopharyngitis, erythema at injection site, flushing sensation, induration at injection site, itching at injection site, pain at injection site, and tenderness at injection site. Other side effects include: back pain.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to anthrax vaccine adsorbed: suspension
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by anthrax vaccine adsorbed (the active ingredient contained in Biothrax). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking anthrax vaccine adsorbed, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with anthrax vaccine adsorbed may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to anthrax vaccine adsorbed: injectable suspension, subcutaneous suspension
Local side effects are reported most commonly and have included tenderness, erythema, subcutaneous nodule, induration, warmth, local pruritus, arm motion limitation, and edema.  Local reactions tended to occur more often in females.[Ref]
Severe local reactions defined as edema or induration >120 mm diameter , marked arm motion limitation, or marked axillary node tenderness have been reported in 0.15% of vaccinees (n=15,907).  Moderate local reactions defined as edema or induration 30 mm to 120 mm have been reported in 0.94%.  Mild reactions have been reported in 8.63%.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included anorexia, nausea, and vomiting.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included transient myalgia and arthralgia.  Inflammatory arthritis has rarely been reported; however, causality has not been established.[Ref]
Systemic reactions have included transient headache, fever, fatigue, malaise, and chills.  In post-licensure studies, systemic reactions were reported in 5% to 35% of vaccinees and occurred more often in women.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included transient respiratory difficulty. Asthma has been reported rarely; however, causality has not been established.[Ref]
One case of delayed hypersensitivity has been reported.  A vaccinee developed lesions by day 3 after the first dose, diffuse hives by day 17 (3 days after the second dose), and swollen hands, face, and feet, and discomfort swallowing by day 18.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity reactions have included delayed hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included dizziness.  Seizure, tremors, aseptic meningitis, encephalitis, transverse myelitis, cerebrovascular accident, facial palsy, hearing and visual disorders, Guillain-Barre Syndrome, and multiple sclerosis have been reported rarely; however, causality has not been established.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus.  Cysts, pemphigus vulgaris, and cellulitis have rarely been reported; however, causality has not been established.[Ref]
Other side effects have rarely included sepsis, systemic lupus erythematosus, polyarteritis nodosa, and spontaneous abortion; however, causality has not been established.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have rarely included aplastic anemia, neutropenia, idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura, lymphoma, leukemia; however, causality has not been established.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects have rarely included mental status changes, psychiatric disorders, and mood-cognition disorders; however, causality has not been established.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have rarely included myocarditis, cardiomyopathy, atrial fibrillation, syncope, endocarditis, angioedema, and collagen vascular disease; however, causality has not been established.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have rarely included liver abscess; however, causality has not been established.[Ref]
Renal side effects have rarely included glomerulonephritis and renal failure; however, causality has not been established.[Ref]
Immunologic side effects have rarely included immune deficiency; however, causality has not been established.[Ref]
1. Friedlander AM,  Pittman PR,  Parker GW "Anthrax vaccine: evidence for safety and efficacy against inhalational anthrax." JAMA 282 (1999): 2104-6
2. "From the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Surveillance for adverse effects associated with anthrax vaccination--US Department of Defense, 1998-2000." JAMA 283 (2000): 2648-9
3. "Product Information. Biothrax (anthrax vaccine adsorbed)." Bioport Corporation, Lansing, MI. 
4. "Surveillance for adverse events associated with anthrax vaccination--U.S. Department of Defense, 1998-2000." MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 49 (2000): 341-5
Not all side effects for Biothrax may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Pain, redness, tenderness, or limited movement of the arm where the injection is given


Swollen, painful, or tender lymph glands in the neck, armpit, or groin


Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
chills
cough
diarrhea
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fainting
fast heartbeat
hives or welts, skin rash
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
redness of the skin
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
shortness of breath
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
unusual tiredness or weakness


Headache
muscle aches and pains


Burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
dark-colored urine
difficulty with moving
feeling of warmth
hair loss or thinning of the hair
muscle cramps or spasms
muscle pain or stiffness
nausea
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
swollen joints
trouble sleeping

