In some patients bismuth subsalicylate may cause dark tongue and/or grayish black stools. This is only temporary and will go away when you Stop taking bismuth subsalicylate.
Rare (less than 0.1%): Myoclonic encephalopathy Frequency not reported: Weakness, fatigue, depression, anxiety, irritability, insomnia, unsteady gait, motor incoordination, loss of memory, jerky movements, mental confusion, disorientation, difficulty in walking and speaking, tremor, myoclonic jerks, incontinence
Nervous system toxicity is a common feature of bismuth toxicity.  Bismuth toxicity is characterized by the insidious onset of weakness and fatigue, depression, anxiety, irritability, insomnia, unsteady gait, motor incoordination, loss of memory, and jerky movements.  Acute toxicity may result in the development of mental confusion, disorientation, difficulty in walking and speaking, tremor, myoclonic jerks, and incontinence.Myoclonic encephalopathy has occurred in patients who have ingested bismuth for several months to years, but the incidence is very rare.  Recovery of patients from bismuth encephalopathy may take several months following discontinuation of use.  Bismuth encephalopathy has generally been reported in patients ingesting salts other than subsalicylate.
Salicylism has been reported in patients who chronically ingest bismuth subsalicylate (the active ingredient contained in Bismatrol)   Common complaints include vertigo, diminished hearing, lethargy, CNS dysfunction, confusion, tinnitus, vomiting, and abdominal pain.  Patients may present with respiratory alkalosis and metabolic acidosis, azotemia, and hypoprothrombinemia and platelet dysfunction.  The elderly may be particularly vulnerable to the development of salicylism.
Frequency not reported: Salicylism
Very common (10% or more): Black stoolCommon (1% to 10%): Black tongueFrequency not reported: Nausea, vomiting
Anxiety
any loss of hearing
confusion
constipation (severe)
diarrhea (severe or continuing)
difficulty in speaking or slurred speech
dizziness or lightheadedness 
drowsiness (severe)
 fast or deep breathing
headache (severe or continuing) 
increased sweating
increased thirst
mental depression
 muscle spasms (especially of face, neck, and back)
 muscle weakness
nausea or vomiting (severe or continuing) 
ringing or buzzing in ears (continuing)
stomach pain (severe or continuing)
 trembling
uncontrollable flapping movements of the hands (especially in elderly patients) or other uncontrolled body movements 
vision problems