Generic Name: fluticasone / vilanterol
Applies to fluticasone / vilanterol: inhalation powder
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by fluticasone / vilanterol. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking fluticasone / vilanterol:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking fluticasone / vilanterol, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with fluticasone / vilanterol may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to fluticasone / vilanterol: inhalation powder
The most common adverse reactions are nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, headache, and oral candidiasis.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): HypertensionUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Extrasystoles[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Diarrhea, oral candidiasis, abdominal pain[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Back pain, arthralgia, fracturesPostmarketing reports: Muscle spasm[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Headache, tremor[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Influenza, pyrexia, peripheral edema[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, oropharyngeal candidiasis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), pneumonia, bronchitis, sinusitis, cough, oropharyngeal pain, pharyngitis, oropharyngitis fungal[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, and urticaria[Ref]
1. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
3. "Product Information. Breo Ellipta (fluticasone-vilanterol)." GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC. 
Not all side effects for Breo Ellipta may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Body aches or pain
chills, fever
cough
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
headache
loss of voice
muscle aches
sneezing
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
unusual tiredness or weakness


Bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
blurred vision
chest pain
diarrhea
dizziness
general feeling of discomfort or illness
joint or muscle pain
loss of appetite
nausea or vomiting
nervousness
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
pounding in the ears
slow or fast heartbeat
sweating
tightness of the chest
tingling of the hands or feet
trouble sleeping
troubled breathing
unusual weight gain or loss


Abdominal or stomach pain
arm, back, or jaw pain
chest discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
confusion
convulsions
decreased urine
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
drowsiness
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
fruit-like breath odor
general feeling of discomfort or illness
increased hunger or thirst
increased urination
loss of appetite
muscle cramps
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
rapid, deep breathing
restlessness
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
stomach cramps
unexplained weight loss


Creamy white, curd-like patches in the mouth or throat
difficulty with moving
muscle stiffness
pain when eating or swallowing

