Generic Name: bromfenac ophthalmic
Applies to bromfenac ophthalmic: ophthalmic solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by bromfenac ophthalmic (the active ingredient contained in Bromday). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking bromfenac ophthalmic:
Some of the side effects that can occur with bromfenac ophthalmic may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to bromfenac ophthalmic: ophthalmic solution
Common (1% to 10%): Anterior chamber inflammation, foreign body sensation in eye, vitreous floaters, iritis, eye pain, ocular hypertension, photophobia, blurred visionUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Reduced visual acuity, hemorrhagic retinopathy, corneal epithelium defect, corneal erosion, corneal epithelium disorder, corneal edema, retinal exudates, eyelid bleeding, eyelid edema, eye discharge, eye pruritus, eye irritation, eye redness, conjunctival hyperemia, ocular discomfortRare (less than 0.1%): Corneal perforation, corneal ulcer, corneal erosion, scleromalacia, corneal infiltrates, corneal disorder, corneal scar[Ref]
The most frequently reported side effects were foreign body sensation in eye, anterior chamber inflammation, headache, vitreous floaters, iritis, eye pain, photophobia, blurred vision, and ocular hypertension.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Headache[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Face swelling[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Epistaxis, cough, nasal sinus drainage Rare (less than 0.1%): Asthma[Ref]
1. "Product Information. BromSite (bromfenac ophthalmic)." Sun Pharmaceutical Industries, Cranbury, NJ. 
2. "Product Information. Prolensa (bromfenac ophthalmic)." Bausch and Lomb, Rochester, NY. 
3. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
4. "Product Information. Xibrom (bromfenac ophthalmic)." ISTA Pharmaceuticals, Irvine, CA. 
Not all side effects for Bromday may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Blurred vision
change in color vision
decreased vision or other changes in vision
difficulty seeing at night
eye pain
red, sore eyes
sensitivity to light
tearing


Abnormal sensation in the eye
burning or stinging of the eye
feeling of having something in the eye
headache
itching of the eyes

