Generic Name: brompheniramine
Applies to brompheniramine: chewable tablets, liquid, oral suspension
Other dosage forms:
 Check with your doctor if any of these most COMMON side effects persist or become bothersome:
Anxiety; dizziness or lightheadedness; drowsiness; enlarged pupils; headache; loss of appetite; restlessness; sleeplessness; tension.
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; itching; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, or tongue); blurred or double vision; chest pain; clumsiness or unsteadiness; convulsions; fast or irregular heartbeat; hallucinations; pounding in the chest; psychotic episodes (bizarre behavior); severe dry mouth, nose, or throat; shortness of breath; sore throat and fever; trouble urinating; unusual bleeding or bruising; unusual tiredness or weakness.


Applies to brompheniramine: compounding powder, injectable solution, oral capsule, oral capsule extended release, oral liquid, oral suspension extended release, oral tablet, oral tablet chewable extended release, oral tablet extended release
Nervous system side effects have included central nervous system (CNS) depression, resulting in drowsiness and sedation in nearly 50% of patients treated. This effect has often been transient and ceased with continued use.  Motor skills have be impaired and patients should be advised to avoid tasks which require attention.  Patients should also avoid concomitant use with alcohol and other sedative-hypnotic drugs.  Dyskinesias have rarely been reported following chronic use of brompheniramine (the active ingredient contained in Bromax) [Ref]
A few cases of dyskinesias and tremors, often of the face, have been reported in patients whose chronic use of brompheniramine extended over a period of up to 10 years.  Some of these cases were only partially relieved by discontinuation of the drug.  Haloperidol was successful in relieving symptoms in these patients.  Spasmodic torticollis has been reported in a child given brompheniramine over an eight month period.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have include nausea, dry mouth and constipation.[Ref]
Cardiovascular effects of brompheniramine (the active ingredient contained in Bromax) have included hypotension, tachycardia, and palpitations.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have included blurred vision, diplopia, and dry eyes due to anticholinergic effects.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included dysuria, urinary hesitancy, decrease in urine flow, and, in rare cases, acute urinary retention.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included rare cases of hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and agranulocytosis.[Ref]
1. Thach BT, Chase TN, Bosma JF "Oral facial dyskinesia associated with prolonged use of antihistaminic decongestants." N Engl J Med 293 (1975): 486-7
2. Blamoutier J "Comparative trial of two antihistamines, mequitazine and brompheniramine." Curr Med Res Opin 5 (1978): 366-70
3. Schuller DE, Turkewitz D "Adverse effects of antihistamines." Postgrad Med 79 (1986): 75-86
4. Lewith GT, Davidson F "Dystonic reactions to Dimotapp elixir." J R Coll Gen Pract 31 (1981): 241
5. Simons FE, Frith EM, Simons KJ "The pharmacokinetics and antihistaminic effects of brompheniramine." J Allergy Clin Immunol 70 (1982): 458-64
Not all side effects for Bromax may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
12-hour sustained-release tablets, 24-hour sustained-release capsules
