 Check with your doctor if any of these most COMMON side effects persist or become bothersome:
Constipation; diarrhea; dizziness; drowsiness; excitability; headache; loss of appetite; nausea; nervousness or anxiety; trouble sleeping; upset stomach; vomiting; weakness.
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, or tongue); difficulty urinating or inability to urinate; fast or irregular heartbeat; hallucinations; seizures; severe dizziness, lightheadedness, or headache; tremor; trouble sleeping; vision changes.
A few cases of dyskinesias and tremors, often of the face, have been reported in patients whose chronic use of brompheniramine extended over a period of up to 10 years.  Some of these cases were only partially relieved by discontinuation of the drug.  Haloperidol was successful in relieving symptoms in these patients.  Spasmodic torticollis has been reported in a child given brompheniramine over an eight month period.
Nervous system side effects of brompheniramine have included central nervous system (CNS) depression, resulting in drowsiness and sedation in nearly 50% of patients treated. This effect has often been transient and ceased with continued use.  Motor skills have be impaired and patients should be advised to avoid tasks which require attention.  Patients should also avoid concomitant use with alcohol and other sedative-hypnotic drugs.  Dyskinesias have rarely been reported following chronic use of brompheniramine.  Nervous system side effects of pseudoephedrine have included insomnia in up to 30% of patients.  Tremor, anxiety, nervousness, and headache have also been reported.
Gastrointestinal side effects of brompheniramine have include nausea, dry mouth and constipation.  Gastrointestinal side effects of pseudoephedrine have included anorexia and gastric irritation in approximately 5% of patients.  Dry mouth, nose, or throat have occurred in up to 15% of patients receiving pseudoephedrine.
Cardiovascular effects of brompheniramine have included hypotension, tachycardia, and palpitations.  Cardiovascular side effects of pseudoephedrine have included tachycardia.  Some patients taking pseudoephedrine have developed hypertension and/or arrhythmias.
Pseudoephedrine causes vasoconstriction which generally does not produce hypertension, but may be problematic for patients with preexisting hypertension.  Arrhythmias may be produced in predisposed patients.  Rarely, pseudoephedrine has been reported to cause coronary artery spasm and chest pain.One report evaluated the effect with 60 mg of pseudoephedrine on individuals in a hyperbaric chamber at 1 atmosphere (simulated scuba dive to 66 feet of sea water).  Pseudoephedrine and depth (stimulated) were found to have significant but opposite effects on heart rate, although these effects were unlikely to be clinically significant during diving.
Ocular side effects of brompheniramine have included blurred vision, diplopia, and dry eyes due to anticholinergic effects.
Hematologic side effects of brompheniramine have included rare cases of hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and agranulocytosis.
Hypersensitivity side effects in patients receiving pseudoephedrine have included fixed drug eruptions.
Genitourinary side effects of brompheniramine have included dysuria, urinary hesitancy, decrease in urine flow, and, in rare cases, acute urinary retention.