Commonly reported side effects of bumetanide include: hypokalemia and hyperuricemia.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to bumetanide: oral tablet
Other dosage forms:
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by bumetanide. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking bumetanide:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking bumetanide, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with bumetanide may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to bumetanide: compounding powder, injectable solution, oral tablet
Metabolic side effects associated with bumetanide, as with other loop diuretics, occur in 7% to 20% of patients, and include hyponatremia, hypokalemia, hypochloremia, and hyperuricemia.  These side effects may be more likely in patients with renal insufficiency.  Glucose intolerance is reported in up to 14% of elderly patients.  Hypokalemia may lead to increased renal tubular bicarbonate reabsorption, resulting in metabolic alkalosis.[Ref]
Besides acting on the loop of Henle, bumetanide also inhibits phosphate reabsorption in the proximal tubule, resulting in phosphaturia.  Since phosphorous is abundant in most diets, bumetanide-induced phosphaturia may not be significant except in malnourished patients, patients on life support, and patients with significant muscle weakness.Calcium balance appears to remain neutral during treatment with a loop diuretic (i.e., furosemide, bumetanide).  Although loop diuretics cause an increase in renal calcium excretion, this appears to be compensated for by a parathyroid-dependent increase in 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D levels, which increases intestinal calcium absorption.  Bone metabolism does not appear to be significantly affected by loop diuretics.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included muscle cramps in 1.1% and weakness in 0.2% of patients.[Ref]
Renal insufficiency, manifested as a rise in serum creatinine and BUN, may occur in up to 7% of patients.  It is usually due to extracellular fluid volume depletion and is readily reversible.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects include hypotension in less than 2% of patients.  Patients with a history of cardiac arrhythmias should be monitored closely because of the risk of hypokalemia.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects were reported in less than 2% of patients and included nausea, vomiting, loose stools, and constipation.  There have been rare reports of hyperamylasemia and pancreatitis associated with bumetanide use.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects, such as headache, dizziness, deafness, tinnitus, vertigo, and decreased hearing, are reported in less than 2% of patients.  Encephalopathy after bumetanide administration is reported in patients with severe liver disease.[Ref]
Severe hypersensitivity reactions such as Stevens-Johnson syndrome and recurrent urticaria have been reported in rare cases.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity reactions are rare.  Rash is reported in less than 1% of treated patients.  Because cross-reactivity with furosemide is rare, bumetanide can be substituted at about a 1:40 dose ratio of bumetanide to furosemide in patients allergic to furosemide.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included pseudoporphyria, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects are extremely rare.  Cases of thrombocytopenia, mild anemia, and leukopenia have been reported.[Ref]
1. Ring-Larsen H "Bumetanide in the treatment of hepatic ascites. A short and long-term study." Acta Med Scand 195 (1974): 411-4
2. Rejnmark L,  Vestergaard P,  Heickendorff L,  Andreasen F,  Mosekilde L "Effects of thiazide- and loop-diuretics, alone or in combination, on calcitropic hormones and biochemical bone markers: a randomized controlled study." J Intern Med 250 (2001): 144-53
3. Menday AP, Adnitt PI, Underwood PN "Effect of long-term treatment with bumetanide/amiloride on electrolytes and renal function in elderly patients with heart failure." Curr Ther Res Clin Exp 50 (1991): 57-64
4. Kubik MM, Bowers E, Underwood PN "Longterm experience of the routine use of bumetanide." Br J Clin Pract 30 (1976): 11-4
5. Hofstetter A "Bumetanide, a new diuretic." Int Urol Nephrol 6 (1974): 35-42
6. Chaudhuri ML, Catania J "A comparison of the effects of bumetanide (Burinex) and frusemide on carbohydrate metabolism in the elderly." Br J Clin Pract 42 (1988): 427-9
7. Rejnmark L,  Vestergaard P,  Heickendorff L,  Andreasen F,  Mosekilde L "Effects of long-term treatment with loop diuretics on bone mineral density, calcitropic hormones and bone turnover." J Intern Med 257 (2005): 176-84
8. Ward A, Heel RC "Bumetanide: a review of its pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties and therapeutic use." Drugs 28 (1984): 426-64
9. Berg KJ, Tromsdal A, Wideroe TE "Diuretic action of bumetanide in advanced chronic renal insufficiency." Eur J Clin Pharmacol 9 (1976): 265-75
10. Johnson CA, Grant KL, Madalon MG "Severe musculoskeletal syndrome in patients with renal failure and hypoalbuminemia receiving bumetanide." Clin Pharm 6 (1987): 735-41
11. "Product Information. Bumex (bumetanide)." Roche Laboratories, Nutley, NJ. 
12. Dixon DW, Barwolf-Gohlke C, Gunnar RM "Comparative efficacy and safety of bumetanide and furosemide in long- term treatment of edema due to congestive heart failure." J Clin Pharmacol 21 (1981): 680-7
13. Lynggaard F, Bjorndal N "Bumetanide-induced hyperamylaseaemia in patients with renal insufficiency." Lancet 2 (1977): 1355
14. Stenvinkel P, Alvestrand A "Loop diuretic-induced pancreatitis with rechallenge in a patient with malignant hypertension and renal insufficiency." Acta Med Scand 224 (1988): 89-91
15. Handler B, Dhingra RC, Rosen KM "Bumetanide: a new diuretic. Results of clinical efficacy and safety in patients with congestive heart failure." J Clin Pharmacol 21 (1981): 691-6
16. Leitao EA, Person JR "Bumetanide-induced pseudoporphyria." J Am Acad Dermatol 23 (1990): 129-30
Not all side effects for bumetanide may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
injection solution

Abdominal pain
blurred vision
confusion
decreased urine output
dizziness
drowsiness
dry mouth
fast or irregular heartbeat
flushed, dry skin
fruit-like breath odor
headache
increased hunger
increased thirst
increased urination
irritability
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
loss of appetite
loss of mental alertness
lower back, side, or stomach pain
mood or mental changes
muscle pain or cramps
nausea or vomiting
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
shortness of breath
sweating
swelling of face, hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs
troubled breathing
unexplained weight loss
unusual tiredness or weakness
weak pulse


Agitation
back pain
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
chest pain
convulsions (seizures)
deep or fast breathing with dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly
fever
hallucinations
hives
increase in heart rate
increased blood pressure
numbness of feet, hands, and around the mouth
pinpoint red spots on the skin
rapid breathing
stiff neck
sunken eyes
trembling, jerking of hands
unusual bleeding or bruising
weight gain
wrinkled skin


Difficulty breathing
pain in chest, groin, or legs, especially the calves
severe, sudden headache
slurred speech
sudden loss of coordination
sudden, severe weakness or numbness in the arm or leg
sudden, unexplained shortness of breath
unusual drowsiness, dullness, or feeling of sluggishness
vision changes


Decreased interest in sexual intercourse
diarrhea
difficulty with moving
ear discomfort
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
inability to have or keep an erection
itching skin
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
muscle or bone pain
muscle stiffness
nipple tenderness
pain, swelling, or redness in joints
rash
sensation of spinning
shorter than usual time to ejaculation of semen
trouble with hearing
upset stomach

