Commonly reported side effects of butorphanol include: dizziness and drowsiness. Other side effects include: lethargy, cold and clammy skin, and diaphoresis.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to butorphanol: injection solution
Other dosage forms:
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by butorphanol. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking butorphanol, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking butorphanol, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with butorphanol may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to butorphanol: injectable solution, nasal spray
The manufacturer has reported that in clinical trials (n=2,446), approximately half of the patients received butorphanol injection and the other half received butorphanol nasal spray.  The type and incidence of side effects with butorphanol by either route were consistent with those commonly found with opioid analgesics.[Ref]
Nervous system effects including somnolence (43%), dizziness (19%), insomnia (11%), anxiety, confusion, euphoria, floating feeling, nervousness, paresthesia, and tremor have been reported.[Ref]
Respiratory effects including nasal congestion (13%), bronchitis, cough, dyspnea, epistaxis, nasal irritation, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinus congestion, sinusitis, and upper respiratory infection have all been predominantly reported from long term trials with butorphanol nasal spray.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal effects including nausea and/or vomiting (13%), anorexia, constipation, dry mouth, and stomach pain have been reported.[Ref]
Asthenia/lethargy, headache, and a sensation of heat have been reported.[Ref]
Cardiovascular effects including vasodilation and palpitations have been predominantly reported from long term trials with butorphanol nasal spray.[Ref]
Dermatologic effects including sweating/clammy skin and pruritus have been reported.[Ref]
Ear pain, tinnitus, and unpleasant taste have been predominantly reported from trials with butorphanol nasal spray.[Ref]
Ocular effects including blurred vision have been reported.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal effects including a case of fibrous myopathy have been reported in a patient abusing intramuscular butorphanol.[Ref]
Elderly patients may be more sensitive to the effects of butorphanol.  Clinical studies of butorphanol administered via the intranasal route have reported that elderly patients had an increased frequency of headache, dizziness, drowsiness, vertigo, constipation, nausea and/or vomiting, and nasal congestion, compared with younger patients.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Stadol (butorphanol nasal)." Bristol-Myers Squibb, Princeton, NJ. 
2. Wagner JM, Cohen S "Fibrous myopathy from butorphanol injections." J Rheumatol 18 (1991): 1934-5
Not all side effects for butorphanol may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
nasal spray

Cough producing mucus
difficulty breathing
shortness of breath
tightness in chest
wheezing


Blurred vision
chest pain
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
nervousness
pounding in the ears
slow or fast heartbeat


Bluish lips or skin
false beliefs that cannot be changed by facts
not breathing
seizures


Change in consciousness
extremely shallow or slow breathing
irregular heartbeats
loss of consciousness
shortness of breath
swelling in hands and feet


Dizziness
nausea
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
vomiting


Bad unusual or unpleasant (after) taste
bloody nose
body aches or pain
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
change in taste
clammy skin
congestion
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in ears
cough
dry mouth
dryness or soreness of throat
ear pain
false or unusual sense of well-being
fear or nervousness
feeling of warmth or heat
fever
floating feeling
flushing or redness of skin, especially on face and neck
headache
hearing loss
heat sensation on body
hoarseness
loss of appetite
nasal irritation
runny nose
shakiness
skin itching
sleeplessness
sneezing
stomach pain
stuffy nose
tender, swollen glands in neck
trouble in swallowing
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep
voice changes
weight loss


Sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness


Dizziness or lightheadedness
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
lack or loss of strength
problems in speaking
sensation of spinning

