More frequently reported side effects include: increased serum calcium.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to calcifediol: oral capsule extended release, oral capsule liquid filled
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by calcifediol. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking calcifediol:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking calcifediol, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with calcifediol may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to calcifediol: oral capsule, oral capsule extended release
Metabolic side effects have included hypercalcemia, and increased phosphate absorption.[Ref]
Early signs and symptoms of hypercalcemia include headache, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, metallic taste, constipation, abdominal cramps, dry mouth, weakness, fatigue, muscle and bone pain, ataxia, tinnitus, and vertigo.  Later hypercalcemia may result in pruritus, mental confusion, coma, hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, seizures, metastatic calcification, and renal insufficiency manifested by polyuria, nocturia, polydipsia, and proteinuria.  Patients with renal failure are more prone to the development of hypercalcemia because the urinary excretion of calcium cannot compensate for increases in serum calcium.Increased phosphate absorption may be detrimental in patients with chronic renal failure and hyperphosphatemia.Because of the long half-life of calcifediol, reversal of toxic symptoms may take 7 to 30 days.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Calderol (calcifediol)." Organon, West Orange, NJ. 
2. "Calcifediol for renal osteodystrophy." Med Lett Drugs Ther 24 (1982): 92-3
3. Araugo OE, Flowers FP, Brown K "Vitamin D therapy in psoriasis." DICP 25 (1991): 835-9
4. Miller SM "New perspectives on vitamin D." Am J Med Technol 49 (1983): 27-37
Not all side effects for calcifediol may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Abdominal or stomach pain
chest pain
confusion
cough
cough producing mucus
decreased urine output
difficulty with breathing
difficulty with moving
dilated neck veins
extreme fatigue
fever or chills
irregular breathing
irregular heartbeat
muscle pain or stiffness
nausea or vomiting
nervousness
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
pain, swelling, or redness in the joints
pale skin
sneezing
sore throat
swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or lower legs
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
weakness or heaviness of the legs
weight gain


Confusion
constipation
depression
dry mouth
headache
incoherent speech
increased urination
loss of appetite
metallic taste
muscle weakness
thirst
weight loss


Decreased appetite
decreased urination
dizziness
dry mouth
fainting
high urine levels of calcium
increase in heart rate
irritability
lightheadedness
muscle weakness
rapid breathing
sunken eyes
wrinkled skin


Bruise
muscle aches
stuffy or runny nose

