Generic Name: irinotecan
Applies to irinotecan: intravenous solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by irinotecan (the active ingredient contained in Camptosar). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking irinotecan, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with irinotecan may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to irinotecan: intravenous solution
"Early" diarrhea usually occurs during or shortly after dosage administration.  It may appear as a component of early cholinergic syndrome and may be preceded by complaints of diaphoresis and abdominal cramping.  Symptoms may usually be quickly ameliorated by atropine.Late diarrhea can be prolonged, may lead to dehydration and electrolyte imbalance and can be life threatening.  Late diarrhea should be treated promptly with aggressive high dose loperamide therapy.  The patient may be treated with 4 mg at the first loose stool or increase in frequency of bowel movements and every 2 hours until the patient is diarrhea-free for 12 hours.  Patients with severe diarrhea should be carefully monitored and given fluid and electrolyte replacement if they become dehydrated.  Administration of irinotecan (the active ingredient contained in Camptosar) should be interrupted if severe diarrhea occurs and the dose may need to be reduced.Ulcerative and ischemic colitis can be complicated by ulceration, bleeding, ileus, obstruction, and infection, including typhlitis.  Patients experiencing ileus should receive prompt antibiotic support.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects including "early" diarrhea occurring within 24 hours of the administration of irinotecan (50.7%) and "late" diarrhea occurring over 24 hours after dosage administration (87.8%) have been reported.  Nausea (86.2%), vomiting (66.8%), anorexia (54.9%), constipation (29.9%), flatulence (12.2%), stomatitis (11.8%) and dyspepsia (10.5%) have also been reported.  Cases of ulcerative and ischemic colitis have been reported infrequently.  Intestinal perforation, symptomatic pancreatitis, and asymptomatic elevated pancreatic enzymes have also been reported rarely.  Cases of megacolon have been reported in post-marketing experience.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects including leukopenia (63.2%), anemia (60.5%) and neutropenia (53.9%) have been reported.[Ref]
Reduction in neutrophils has been the predominant clinically relevant hematologic effect.  The median time to nadir for hematologic values ranges from 14 days for platelets to 21 days for hemoglobin, neutrophils and leukocytes.  The median time to nadir for platelets has been reported to have decreased as the starting dose increased.[Ref]
General side effects including asthenia (75.7%), abdominal cramping/pain (56.9%), fever (45.4%), pain (23.7%), headache (16.8%), back pain (14.5%), chills (13.8%), minor infections (14.5%), edema (10.2%) and abdominal enlargement (10.2%) have been reported.  Hiccups have been reported in post-marketing experience.[Ref]
Minor infections consisted primarily of upper respiratory infections.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects including loss of body weight (30.3%), dehydration (14.8%), increased alkaline phosphatase (13.2%), and increased SGOT (10.5%) have been reported.  Rare cases of hyponatremia (mostly related with diarrhea and vomiting) have also been reported.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects including alopecia (60.5%), sweating (16.4%), rash (12.8%), and paresthesias have been reported.  A case of skin toxicity has also been reported.[Ref]
Interstitial pulmonary disease can be fatal.  Risk factors include pre-existing lung disease, use of pneumotoxic drugs, radiation therapy, and colony stimulating factors.  Patients with risk factors should be closely monitored for respiratory symptoms before and during irinotecan (the active ingredient contained in Camptosar) therapy.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects including dyspnea (22%), increased coughing (17.4%) and rhinitis (15.5%) have been reported.  Interstitial pulmonary disease presenting as pulmonary infiltrates has been uncommon during irinotecan therapy.  A case of interstitial pneumonia has also been reported.[Ref]
Neurologic side effects including insomnia (19.4%) and dizziness (14.8%) have been reported.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects including vasodilation (11.2%) have been reported.  Myocardial ischemic events have been observed following irinotecan (the active ingredient contained in Camptosar) therapy in post-marketing experience.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects including elevation of hepatic transaminases (8%) have been reported.  Transient increase of amylase and occasionally transient increase of lipase have been reported in post-marketing experience.[Ref]
Other side effects including a case of dysarthria have been reported.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects including severe anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions have been reported.
Renal side effects have been reported.  Infrequent cases of renal insufficiency including acute renal failure, hypotension, or circulatory failure have been observed in patients who experienced episodes of dehydration associated with sepsis, diarrhea, and/or vomiting.
Musculoskeletal side effects including muscular contractions and cramps have been reported.
1. "Product Information. Camptosar (irinotecan)." Pharmacia and Upjohn, Kalamazoo, MI. 
2. Abigerges D, Chabot GG, Armand JP, Herait P, Gouyette A, Gandia D "Phase I and pharmacologic studies of the camptothecin analog irinotecan administered every 3 weeks in cancer patients." J Clin Oncol 13 (1995): 210-21
3. Abigerges D, Armand JP, Chabot GG, Da Costa L, Fadel E, Cote C, Herait P, Gandia D "Irinotecan (CPT-11) high-dose escalation using intensive high-dose loperamide to control diarrhea." J Natl Cancer Inst 86 (1994): 446-9
4. Rougier P, Culine S, Bugat R, Brunet P, Douillard JY, Ychou M, Marty M, Bonneterre J, Ganem G, Seitz JF, et al "Multicentric Phase II study of first line CPT-11 (irinotecan) in advanced colorectal cancer (CRC): preliminary results (Meeting abstract)." Proc Annu Meet Am Soc Clin Oncol 13 (1994): a5851994
5. Hagipantelli R, Saliba F, Misset JL, Giacchetti S, Brain E, Bertheault-Cvitkovic F, Vassal G, Bonnay M, Bastian G, Cote C, et al "Pathophysiology and therapy of irinotecan (CPT-11) induced delayed onset diarrhea (DD): a prospective assessment (Meeting abstract)." Proc Annu Meet Am Soc Clin Oncol 14 (1995): a14991995
6. Michielin O,  Udry E,  Periard D,  Matzinger O,  Lobrinus J,  Stupp R "Irinotecan-induced interstitial pneumonia." Lancet Oncol 5 (2004): 322-324
7. Baz DV,  Bofill JS,  Nogueira JA "Irinotecan-induced dysarthria." J Natl Cancer Inst 93 (2001): 1419-20
Not all side effects for Camptosar may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Anxiety
black, tarry stools
blood in the urine or stools
blurred vision
changes in skin color
chest pain or discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
chills
clay colored stools
cold hands and feet
confusion
constricted pupils
cough or hoarseness
dark urine
diarrhea with or without stomach cramps or sweating
dizziness
fainting
fast, slow, or irregular heartbeat
fever
full or bloated feeling or pressure in the stomach
headache
increased production of saliva
increased tear production
itching
lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
loss of appetite
low blood pressure or pulse
lower back or side pain
nausea or vomiting
numbness or tingling in the face, arms, or legs
pain
pain in the chest, groin, or legs, especially calves of the legs
pain in the shoulders, arms, jaw, or neck
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
redness or swelling of the leg
runny nose
severe headache of sudden onset
shortness of breath or troubled breathing
skin rash
slow breathing
slurred speech
sore throat
stomach pain
stopping of the heart
sudden and severe weakness in the arm or leg on one side of the body
sudden loss of coordination
sudden vision changes
sweating
swelling
swelling of the abdomen or stomach area
temporary blindness
tenderness, pain, or swelling of the arm, foot, or leg
trouble with speaking or walking
ulcers, sores, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
unconsciousness
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood
warm, red feeling over the body
yellow eyes or skin


Bleeding gums
coughing up blood
decreased urination
difficulty with swallowing
dryness of the mouth
increased menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding
increased thirst
nosebleeds
paralysis
prolonged bleeding from cuts
sneezing
wheezing
wrinkled skin


Decreased amount of urine
decreased frequency of urination
fast, irregular, or troubled breathing
hives
increased blood pressure
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rapid weight gain


Abdominal or stomach pain and tenderness
agitation
bloated or full feeling
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
coma
constipation
depression
heartburn or indigestion
hostility
irritability
lethargy
muscle pain and cramps
muscle twitching
pain in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
rectal bleeding
severe abdominal or stomach cramping or burning
severe and continuing nausea
stupor
swelling of the face, lower legs, ankles, fingers, or hands
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of material that looks like coffee grounds


Acid or sour stomach
belching
blistering, peeling, redness, or swelling of the palms of hands or bottoms of the feet
cracked lips
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
numbness, pain, tingling, or unusual sensations in the palms of hands or bottoms of feet
passing gas
right upper abdominal or stomach pain and fullness
sensation of spinning
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sleeplessness
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep
weight loss


Hiccups

