Applies to capreomycin: injection powder for solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by capreomycin. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking capreomycin, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with capreomycin may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to capreomycin: intramuscular powder for injection
Renal side effects have included dose-related nephrotoxicity, including BUN elevations (greater than 20 mg/dL) (36%), BUN elevations (greater than 30 mg/dL) (10%), depression of PSP excretion, abnormal urine sediment, renal insufficiency, and oliguria.  At least one case of toxic nephritis and acute tubular necrosis has been reported.[Ref]
A patient with tuberculosis and portal cirrhosis experienced toxic nephritis and acute tubular necrosis coincident with capreomycin therapy.  The patient was treated with capreomycin therapy (1 g) and aminosalicylic acid daily for 1 month.  The patient developed renal insufficiency and oliguria and died.  The autopsy showed subsiding acute tubular necrosis.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included ototoxicity and vestibular toxicity including subclinical auditory loss (11%), clinically apparent hearing loss (3%), vertigo, and tinnitus.[Ref]
Local side effects have included pain, induration, and excessive bleeding at the injection site.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included leukocytosis, leukopenia, and eosinophilia.  Thrombocytopenia has also been reported rarely.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included decreased BSP excretion.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects including hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, and electrolyte disturbances resembling Bartter's syndrome have been reported.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Capastat Sulfate (capreomycin)." Dura Pharmaceuticals, San Diego, CA. 
Not all side effects for capreomycin may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Black, tarry stools
blood in the urine
change in the frequency of urination or amount of urine
chest pain
chills
cough
difficult breathing
dizziness
drowsiness
feeling of fullness in the ears
fever
increased thirst
loss of appetite
loss of balance
loss of hearing
nausea or vomiting
painful or difficult urination
ringing or buzzing in the ears
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swelling of the feet or lower legs
swollen glands
trouble with hearing
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness


Bleeding gums
pinpoint red spots on the skin


Abdominal or stomach cramps
confusion
continuous ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
convulsions
decreased urine
dizziness or lightheadedness
dry mouth
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
irregular heartbeats
muscle cramps in the hands, arms, feet, legs, or face
muscle spasms (tetany) or twitching
numbness and tingling around the mouth, fingertips, or feet
sensation of spinning
tremor


Hives or welts, itching, or skin rash
pain, bleeding, or hard lump at the injection site
redness of the skin

