Applies to carbinoxamine: oral capsule extended release, oral liquid, oral solution, oral suspension, oral suspension extended release, oral tablet, oral tablet extended release
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by carbinoxamine. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking carbinoxamine:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking carbinoxamine, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with carbinoxamine may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to carbinoxamine: oral capsule extended release, oral liquid, oral suspension, oral suspension extended release, oral tablet, oral tablet extended release
Nervous system side effects have included sedation, dizziness, headache, and nervousness.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have included diplopia.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included vomiting, diarrhea, dry mouth, nausea, heartburn, and anorexia.[Ref]
Other side effects have included weakness.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included polyuria.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Palgic (carbinoxamine)." Pamlab LLC, Mandeville, LA. 
2. "Product Information. Histex I/E (carbinoxamine)." Teamm Pharmaceuticals Inc, Morrisville, NC. 
3. "Product Information. Pediatex (carbinoxamine)." Zyber Pharmaceuticals Inc, Gonzales, LA. 
4. "Product Information. Histex PD (carbinoxamine)." Andrx Pharmaceuticals, Davie, FL. 
5. "Product Information. Histex CT (carbinoxamine)." Andrx Pharmaceuticals, Davie, FL. 
6. "Product Information. Histex Pd 12 (carbinoxamine)." Teamm Pharmaceuticals Inc, Morrisville, NC. 
Not all side effects for carbinoxamine may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Blurred vision
chills
confusion
cough
decrease in the frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
difficult or painful urination
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
hives or welts
itching
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rash
redness of the skin
skin rash
sweating
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness


Agitation
anxiety
bloating
convulsions
diarrhea
difficulty with sleeping
disorientation
dizziness
drowsiness to profound coma
dry mouth
feeling of warmth
fixed and enlarged pupils
gas
headache
lethargy
lightheadedness
loss of appetite
nausea
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
stomach pain
tightness of the chest
trouble breathing
vomiting


Disturbed coordination
drowsiness
sleepiness


Back, leg, or stomach pains
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chills
confusion
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
cough or hoarseness
dark urine
difficulty breathing
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
dizziness or lightheadedness
double vision
dry mouth, nose, and throat
feeling excited
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
fever with or without chills
general body swelling
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
headache
hearing loss
increased sensitivity of the skin to sunlight
itching
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
nosebleeds
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
redness or other discoloration of the skin
restlessness
seeing double
seizures
sensation of spinning
severe sunburn
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
trouble sleeping
unusual bleeding or bruising
weight loss
yellowing of the eyes or skin

