Commonly reported side effects of carisoprodol include: drowsiness and sedation. Other side effects include: dizziness and headache.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to carisoprodol: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by carisoprodol. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking carisoprodol:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking carisoprodol, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with carisoprodol may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to carisoprodol: compounding powder, oral tablet
The most commonly reported adverse reactions have included drowsiness, dizziness, and headache.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Drowsiness (17%)Common (1% to 10%): Dizziness, headachePostmarketing reports: Ataxia, tremor, seizures[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Tachycardia, postural hypotension, syncope, facial flushing[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Agitation, irritability, depressive reactions, insomnia[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Vertigo, dependence, withdrawal[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Nausea, vomiting, epigastric discomfort[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Leukopenia, pancytopenia[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Soma (carisoprodol)." Meda Pharmaceuticals, Somerset, NJ. 
Not all side effects for carisoprodol may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Black, tarry stools
chest pain
chills
cold sweats
confusion
convulsions
cough
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
fever
loss of bladder control
muscle spasm or jerking of all extremities
painful or difficult urination
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
sudden loss of consciousness
swollen glands
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness


Bigger, dilated, or enlarged pupils (black part of the eye)
blurred vision
change in consciousness
confusion as to time, place, or person
difficult or troubled breathing
false or unusual sense of well-being
hallucinations
headache
holding false beliefs that cannot be changed by fact
inability to move the eyes
increased blinking or spasms of the eyelid
increased sensitivity of the eyes to light
irregular, fast or slow, or shallow breathing
loss of consciousness
muscle stiffness or tightness
pale or blue lips, fingernails, or skin
sticking out of the tongue
trouble with breathing, speaking, or swallowing
uncontrolled eye movements
uncontrolled twisting movements of the neck, trunk, arms, or legs
unusual excitement, nervousness, or restlessness
unusual facial expressions
weakness of the arms and legs


Drowsiness


Anxiety
deep or fast breathing with dizziness
dry mouth
face is warm or hot to touch
fainting feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
heartburn
irritability
nausea
nervousness
numbness of the feet, hands, and around the mouth
pain or discomfort in the chest, upper stomach, or throat
redness to face
restlessness
sensation of spinning
shakiness and unsteady walk
sleeplessness
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination
vomiting

