More frequently reported side effects include: pruritus.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking caspofungin, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea (up to 27%), vomiting (up to 17%), nausea (up to 15%), and abdominal pain (up to 9%).  Anorexia, abdominal distension, upper abdominal pain, constipation, and dyspepsia have been reported in less than 5% of patients.  Pancreatitis has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Other side effects have included fever (up to 40%), infusion-related adverse reactions (defined as a systemic event, such as flushing, fever, chills, hypotension, hypertension, tachycardia, dyspnea, tachypnea, rash, or anaphylaxis; up to 35%), chills (up to 23%), septic shock (up to 14%), aspergillosis (13%), peripheral edema (up to 11%), sepsis (up to 7%), mucosal inflammation (up to 6%), flu-like illness, malaise, pain, and warm sensation.  Asthenia, fatigue, edema, flushing, and bacteremia have been reported in less than 5% of patients.  Swelling has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Metabolic side effects have included decreased blood potassium (up to 23%), increased blood alkaline phosphatase (up to 22%), hypokalemia (up to 10%), decreased blood albumin (up to 8.6%), decreased blood magnesium (up to 7%), increased blood glucose (6%), decreased total serum protein (3.1%), and elevated serum calcium (1.1%).  Decreased appetite, fluid overload, hypomagnesemia, hypercalcemia, and hyperglycemia have been reported in less than 5% of patients.
A 68-year-old male experienced reversible severe thrombocytopenia coincident with caspofungin therapy.  He was admitted for shortness of breath, coughing, abdominal pain, and intermittent fever, which had persisted for 10 days.  Two blood cultures obtained on admission revealed Candida albicans.  He was given caspofungin 70 mg for 1 day, then 50 mg per day.  One week after receiving caspofungin therapy, his platelet count dropped precipitously from 136 x 10(3)/mm3 to 24 x 10(3)/mm3, reaching a nadir at 3 x 10(3)/mm3 in 2 days.  Caspofungin was discontinued, and his platelet count returned to a level above 150 x 10(3)/mm3 within 10 days.
Hematological side effects have included decreased hemoglobin (up to 21%), decreased hematocrit (up to 18%), decreased white blood cell count (up to 12%), anemia (up to 11%), eosinophilia (2.3% to 3.2%), decreased platelets (1.5% to 3.1%), and hypoalbuminemia (common).  Thrombocytopenia, coagulopathy, febrile neutropenia, and neutropenia have been reported in less than 5% of patients.
Respiratory side effects have included respiratory failure (up to 20%), cough (up to 11%), pneumonia (up to 11%), pleural effusion (9%), dyspnea (up to 9%), and rales (7%).  Tachypnea, epistaxis, and hypoxia have been reported in less than 5% of patients.  Pulmonary edema, adult respiratory distress syndrome, and pulmonary infiltrates have been reported infrequently.
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypotension (up to 20%), tachycardia (up to 8%), and hypertension (up to 6%).  Arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, cardiac arrest, and myocardial infarction have been reported in less than 5% of patients.
Reported elevations in ALT and AST were accompanied by the use of cyclosporine in some of the patients enrolled in the clinical trials.
Hepatic side effects have included elevations in ALT (up to 18%), AST (up to 17%), blood bilirubin (up to 13%), and conjugated bilirubin (up to 8%).  Hepatic failure, hepatomegaly, hepatotoxicity, hyperbilirubinemia, and jaundice have been reported in less than 5% of patients.  Isolated cases of clinically significant hepatic dysfunction and hepatitis have also been reported.  Hepatic necrosis has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Local side effects have included phlebitis (up to 25%), thrombophlebitis (11.3% to 15.7%), and infused vein complications (1.5% to 12%).  Infusion site pain, infusion site pruritus, and infusion site swelling have been reported in less than 5% of patients.
Dermatological side effects have included rash (up to 23%), pruritus (up to 7%), decubitus ulcer (up to 5%), erythema (up to 5%), induration (3.1%), and sweating (1.3%).  Petechiae, skin lesion, and urticaria have been reported in less than 5% of patients.  At least one case of toxic epidermal necrolysis has been reported.  Erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and skin exfoliation have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Nervous system side effects have included headache (up to 15%) and paresthesia (1.3% to 3.1%).  Convulsion, dizziness, somnolence, and tremor have been reported in less than 5% of patients.
Renal side effects have included increased blood creatinine (up to 11%), increased blood urea nitrogen (up to 9%), nephrotoxicity (3%), and renal failure (less than 5%).  Clinical renal events, regardless of causality, have been reported in 13% of patients.  Clinically significant renal dysfunction has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included anaphylaxis and possible histamine-mediated symptoms (including reports of rash, facial swelling, angioedema, pruritus, sensation of warmth, or bronchospasm).
Genitourinary side effects have included urine positive for red blood cells (10%) and an increase in urine white blood cells (7.7%), protein (1.2% to 4.9%), and red blood cells (1.1% to 3.8%).  Urinary tract infection and hematuria have been reported in less than 5% of patients.
Psychiatric side effects have included anxiety, confusional state, depression, and insomnia in less than 5% of patients.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included myalgia (3.1%) and musculoskeletal pain (1.3%).  Arthralgia, back pain, and pain in extremity have been reported in less than 5% of patients.
Bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
blue lips, fingernails, or skin
blurred vision
changes in skin color
chest pain
confusion
convulsions (seizures)
cough
cracked lips
decreased urine
diarrhea
difficult or troubled breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly
dry mouth
fever
headache
increased thirst
irregular heartbeat
irregular, fast or slow, or shallow breathing
loss of appetite
mood changes
muscle pain or cramps
nausea or vomiting
nervousness
numbness or tingling in your hands, feet, or lips
pain or redness at the injection site
pain, tenderness, or swelling of the foot or leg
pale skin
pounding in the ears
rapid weight gain
shortness of breath
slow or fast heartbeat
sneezing
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips, tongue, or inside the mouth
sweating
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight gain or loss
wheezing
Bloody urine
decreased frequency or amount of urine
increased blood pressure
lower back or side pain
weight gain
yellow eyes or skin
Abdominal or stomach pain or tenderness
black, tarry stools
bladder pain
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
bloody nose
chest pain or discomfort
clay-colored stools
cloudy urine
constipation
dark urine
decreased appetite
depression
drowsiness
fever with or without chills
flushed, dry skin
frequent urge to urinate
fruit-like breath odor
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
incoherent speech
increased hunger
increased urination
indigestion
itching
light-colored stools
metallic taste
muscle spasms (tetany) or twitching seizures
muscle weakness
no blood pressure or pulse
noisy, rattling breathing pain or discomfort in arms, jaw, back, or neck
pains in stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
pinpoint red spots on skin
rapid, shallow breathing
rapid weight gain
rash
right upper abdominal or stomach pain and fullness
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
stomach pain, continuing
stopping of heart
trembling or shaking of hands or feet
troubled breathing at rest
ulcers, sores, or white spots in the mouth
unconsciousness
unexplained weight loss
unpleasant breath odor
vomiting of blood
weakness
weight loss
Flushing, redness of skin
unusually warm skin
Acid or sour stomach
back pain
belching
blistering, peeling, or loosening of skin
bumps on skin
difficulty in moving
dry, red, hot, or irritated skin
fear
flaking and falling off of skin
full or bloated feeling
heartburn
hives or welts
indigestion
joint or muscle pain
lack or loss of strength
muscle pain or stiffness
pressure in the stomach
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
redness of skin
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sleeplessness
small red or purple spots on skin
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
swelling of abdominal or stomach area
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep