Generic Name: ceftizoxime
Applies to ceftizoxime: injectable powder for injection, intravenous solution
Adverse effects may be more likely or more severe in patients with renal and/or liver dysfunction.[Ref]
Ceftizoxime is generally well-tolerated.[Ref]
A case of occupational contact dermatitis due to cephalosporin allergy has been reported in a nurse who prepared cephalosporin solutions for administration to patients.  The dermatitis resolved after the nurse stopped preparing the solutions.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, and fever have been reported in 1% to 5% of patients.  Numbness and anaphylaxis have been reported in less than 1% of patients.  Cephalosporin class antibiotics have been associated with anaphylaxis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and toxic epidermal necrolysis.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting in less than 1% of patients.  Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported in patients treated with cephalosporins.  If diarrhea occurs and is unresponsive to discontinuation of the drug and/or standard therapy, pseudomembranous colitis should be considered.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included transient eosinophilia, thrombocytosis, and positive Coombs' test in 1% to 5% of patients.  Anemia, including occasionally fatal hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported in less than 1% of patients.  Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, prolonged prothrombin time, hemorrhage, neutropenia, pancytopenia, and agranulocytosis.[Ref]
Renal side effects have included transient elevations of BUN and creatinine (less than 1%).  Interstitial nephritis has been reported with some cephalosporins, and presents as reversible fever, azotemia, pyuria, and eosinophiluria.  Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with renal dysfunction and toxic nephropathy.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included transient elevation of AST, ALT, and alkaline phosphatase in 1% to 5% of patients, and bilirubin increases in less than 1%.  Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects including seizures have been associated with some cephalosporins in renally impaired patients.[Ref]
Local side effects have included burning, cellulitis, phlebitis, pain, induration, tenderness, and paresthesia at the injection site in 1% to 5% of patients.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included vaginitis (less than 1%).[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Cefizox (ceftizoxime)." Fujisawa, Deerfield, IL. 
2. Filipe P, Almeida RSLS, Rodrigo FG "Occupational allergic contact dermatitis from cephalosporins." Contact Dermatitis 34 (1996): 226
3. Romano A, Mayorga C, Torres MJ, Artesani MC, Suau R, Sanchez F, Perez E, Venuti A, Blanca M "Immediate allergic reactions to cephalosporins: Cross-reactivity and selective responses." J Allerg Clin Immunol 106 (2000): 1177-83
4. Neu HC "Ceftizoxime: a beta-lactamase-stable, broad-spectrum cephalosporin." Pharmacotherapy 4 (1984): 47-60
5. Tripi M, Pavone-Macaluso M, Giammanco A, Carella G "Randomized comparative trial with ceftizoxime and cefotaxime in urinary tract infections." Int Urol Nephrol 17 (1985): 195-202
6. Toll LL, Lee M, Sharifi R "Cefoxitin-induced interstitial nephritis." South Med J 80 (1987): 274-5
7. Haskell RJ, Fujita NK, Stevenson JA, Border WA "Cefoxitin-induced interstitial nephritis." Arch Intern Med 141 (1981): 1557
Not all side effects for Cefizox may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
