More frequently reported side effects include: oral candidiasis, abdominal cramps, diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to cefpodoxime: oral powder for suspension, oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by cefpodoxime. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking cefpodoxime:
Some of the side effects that can occur with cefpodoxime may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to cefpodoxime: oral powder for reconstitution, oral tablet
Hypersensitivity side effects have included rash and urticaria.  Cross-reactivity in penicillin-allergic patients may occur.  Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, serum sickness-like reactions, and anaphylactic shock have been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Diarrhea and loose stools may be dose-related and has been reported in 10.4% of patients taking 800 mg cefpodoxime per day, compared to 5.7% of patients taking 200 mg per day.  Ten percent of these patients tested positive Clostridium difficile organisms or toxins.C difficile was isolated in six of six volunteers given cefpodoxime for 10 days compared with one of six volunteers given placebo.  The symptoms associated with C difficile were mild and did not result in withdrawal from the study.  The excretion of C difficile in the stool was not statistically associated with the passage of loose stools and none of the subjects went on to develop pseudomembranous colitis.In postmarketing experience reports, one death was attributed to pseudomembranous colitis and disseminated intravascular coagulation.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea (7%), nausea (3.3%), and abdominal pain (1.2%).  Pseudomembranous colitis, vomiting, dyspepsia, dry mouth, flatulence, decreased appetite, constipation, oral moniliasis, anorexia, eructation, gastritis, mouth ulcers, gastrointestinal disorders, rectal disorders, tongue disorders, tooth disorders, increased thirst, oral lesions, stomatitis, tenesmus, dry throat, toothache, taste alteration, and taste loss have been reported in less than 1% of patients.  Pseudomembranous colitis, bloody diarrhea with abdominal pain, ulcerative colitis, and rectorrhagia with hypotension have been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included anemia (less than 1%), leukocytosis, lymphocytosis, granulocytosis, basophilia, monocytosis, thrombocytosis, decreased hemoglobin, decreased hematocrit, leukopenia, lymphocytopenia, thrombocythemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia and eosinophilia, positive Coombs' test, and prolonged PT and PTT.  Most of these effects were transient and clinically insignificant.  Easy bleeding or bruising has been reported.  Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, prolonged prothrombin time, hemorrhage, neutropenia, pancytopenia, and agranulocytosis.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included increased AST, ALT, GGT, alkaline phosphatase, bilirubin, and LDH.  These changes have generally been transient and clinically insignificant.  Acute liver injury has been reported during postmarketing experience.  Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included asthma, cough, epistaxis, rhinitis, wheezing, bronchitis, dyspnea, pleural effusion, pneumonia, and sinusitis in less than 1% of patients.  Pulmonary infiltrate with eosinophilia has been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Renal side effects have included increased BUN and creatinine.  These changes have generally been transient and clinically insignificant.  Purpuric nephritis has been reported during postmarketing experience.  Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with renal dysfunction and toxic nephropathy.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included urticaria, rash, pruritus, diaphoresis, maculopapular rash, diaper rash, fungal dermatitis, acne, exfoliative dermatitis, desquamation, dry skin, hair loss, vesiculobullous rash, and sunburn in less than 1% of patients.  Eyelid dermatitis has been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included headache (1%).  Dizziness, insomnia, somnolence, anxiety, shakiness, nervousness, cerebral infarction, change in dreams, impaired concentration, confusion, nightmares, paresthesia, vertigo, tinnitus, hallucination, hyperkinesia, syncope, and somnolence have been reported in less than 1% of patients.  Some cephalosporins have been associated with seizures in renally impaired patients.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included vaginal fungal infections (1%) and vulvovaginal infections (1.3%).  Hematuria, urinary tract infections, metrorrhagia, dysuria, urinary frequency, nocturia, penile infection, proteinuria, vaginitis, and vaginal pain have been reported in less than 1% of patients.  Change in quantity of urine has been reported.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included myalgia (less than 1%).[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included congestive heart failure, palpitations, vasodilation, hematoma, migraine, hypertension, and hypotension in less than 1% of patients.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects have included dehydration, gout, peripheral edema, and weight increase in less than 1% of patients.  Hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia, hypoalbuminemia, hypoproteinemia, hyperkalemia, and hyponatremia have been reported.  These changes have generally been transient and clinically insignificant.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have included eye irritation in less than 1% of patients.[Ref]
Other side effects have included fungal infections, abdominal distention, malaise, fatigue, asthenia, fever, chest pain, back pain, chills, generalized pain, abnormal microbiological test, moniliasis, abscess, allergic reaction, facial edema, bacterial infections, parasitic infections, localized edema, and localized pain in less than 1% of patients.[Ref]
Endocrine side effects have included galactorrhea with cefpodoxime-associated hyperprolactinemia.[Ref]
1. Zuck P, Rio Y, Ichou F "Efficacy and tolerance of cefpodoxime proxetil compared with ceftriaxone in vulnerable patients with bronchopneumonia." J Antimicrob Chemother 26 (1990): 71-7
2. "Product Information. Vantin (cefpodoxime)." Pharmacia and Upjohn, Kalamazoo, MI. 
3. Romano A, Mayorga C, Torres MJ, Artesani MC, Suau R, Sanchez F, Perez E, Venuti A, Blanca M "Immediate allergic reactions to cephalosporins: Cross-reactivity and selective responses." J Allerg Clin Immunol 106 (2000): 1177-83
4. Kumazawa J "Summary of clinical experience with cefpodoxime proxetil in adults in Japan." Drugs 42 (1991): 1-5
5. Cox CE, Graveline JF, Luongo JM "Review of clinical experience in the United States with cefpodoxime proxetil in adults with uncomplicated urinary tract infections." Drugs 42 (1991): 41-50
6. Filipe P, Almeida RSLS, Rodrigo FG "Occupational allergic contact dermatitis from cephalosporins." Contact Dermatitis 34 (1996): 226
7. Periti P, Novelli A, Schildwachter G, Schmidt-Gayk H, Ryo Y, Zuck P "Efficacy and tolerance of cefpodoxime proxetil compared with co-amoxiclav in the treatment of exacerbations of chronic bronchitis." J Antimicrob Chemother 26 (1990): 63-9
8. Safran C "Cefpodoxime proxetil: dosage, efficacy and tolerance in adults suffering from respiratory tract infections." J Antimicrob Chemother 26 (1990): 93-101
9. Khurana V,  Gambhir IS "Cefpodoxime-induced hyperprolactinemic galactorrhea." Ann Intern Med 152 (2010): 136
10. Chachaty E, Depitre C, Mario N, et al "Presence of clostridium difficile and antibiotic and beta-lactamase activities in feces of volunteers treated with oral cefixime, oral cefpodoxime proxetil, or placebo." Antimicrob Agents Chemother 36 (1992): 2009-13
Not all side effects for cefpodoxime may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Diarrhea
loose stools


Change in the color, amount, or odor of vaginal discharge


Abdominal or stomach cramps or tenderness
black, tarry stools
bladder pain
bleeding gums
bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
bloody nose
bloody or cloudy urine
blurred vision
burning while urinating
chest pain
collection of blood under the skin
confusion
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
cough or hoarseness
cough producing mucus
dark urine
decreased urination
decreased urine output
deep, dark purple bruise
diarrhea, watery and severe, which may also be bloody
difficult or labored breathing
difficult, burning, or painful urination
difficulty with breathing or troubled breathing
dilated neck veins
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
dry mouth
extreme fatigue
fainting
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
feeling of warmth or heat
fever or chills
flushing or redness of the skin, especially on the face and neck
frequent urge to urinate
general body swelling
headache
hearing loss
heavier menstrual periods
increase in heart rate
increased thirst
increased urge to urinate during the night
increased weight
irregular breathing
irregular heartbeat
itching of the vagina or genital area
itching, pain, redness, or swelling
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
nausea or vomiting
nervousness
noisy breathing
nosebleeds
pain
pain during sexual intercourse
pain or swelling of the treated skin
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
pain, warmth, or burning in the fingers, toes, and legs
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
pounding in the ears
problems with vision or hearing
rapid breathing
rapid weight gain
runny nose
shortness of breath or troubled breathing
skin rash
slow or fast heartbeat
sneezing
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stuffy or runny nose
sunken eyes
sweating
swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or lower legs
swelling or puffiness of the face
swollen glands
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
thirst
tightness of the chest or wheezing
tingling of the hands or feet
troubled breathing
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight gain or loss
waking to urinate at night
weight gain
wheezing
wrinkled skin
yellowing of the eyes or skin


Abdominal or stomach pain
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloody, black, or tarry stools
clay-colored stools
feeling of discomfort
fever with or without chills
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
high fever
inflammation of the joints
irritation or inflammation of the eyelid
itching
joint or muscle pain
muscle aches
rectal bleeding
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
seizures
sudden decrease in the amount of urine
swollen lymph glands
swollen or painful glands
unpleasant breath odor
vomiting of blood


Accumulation of pus
acid or sour stomach
ankle, knee, or great toe joint pain
bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
belching
blemishes on the skin
bloated or full feeling
burning feeling in the chest or stomach
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
change in taste
constipation
cracks in the skin
decreased appetite
difficulty with moving
dry skin
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
fear or nervousness
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
frequent urge to defecate
general feeling of discomfort or illness
hair loss
headache, severe and throbbing
heartburn
hives or welts
increase in body movements
increased sweating
increased thirst
indigestion
irritation or soreness of the mouth
joint stiffness or swelling
lack or loss of strength
loss of heat from the body
lower back or side pain
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pains or stiffness
passing of gas
peeling of the skin
pimples
poor concentration
pressure in the stomach
red, sore eyes
red, swollen skin
redness of the skin
scaly skin
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
sensation of spinning
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sleeplessness
sore mouth or tongue
soreness or redness around the fingernails and toenails
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
stomach upset
straining while passing stool
swelling of the abdominal or stomach area
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
swollen, red, or tender area of infection
trouble with sleeping
unable to sleep
white patches in the mouth, tongue, or throat

