Applies to ceftazidime: injection powder for solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by ceftazidime. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking ceftazidime, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with ceftazidime may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to ceftazidime: injectable powder for injection, intravenous solution
Discontinuation of ceftazidime may be necessary in severe, prolonged cases of diarrhea.  Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported and should be considered if the patient does not respond to discontinuation of ceftazidime.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects reported in less than 2% of patients have included diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and pseudomembranous colitis.  Oral candidiasis has been reported in less than 1% of patients.  Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea has also been reported.[Ref]
Mild hypersensitivity reactions, such as rash, pruritus, and fever, have been reported and may necessitate discontinuation of ceftazidime.  A case of asthma induced by occupational exposure to ceftazidime has been reported.A case of occupational contact dermatitis due to cephalosporin allergy has been reported in a nurse who prepared cephalosporin solutions for administration to patients.  The dermatitis resolved after the nurse stopped preparing the solutions.A patient with sensitization to aztreonam showed cross-reactivity to ceftazidime.  Ceftazidime and aztreonam contain the same side chain, which may explain the cross-sensitivity.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, and fever have been reported (2%).  Cross reactions may occur in penicillin-allergic or aztreonam-allergic patients.  Rarely, angioedema and anaphylactic reactions have occurred.  Allergic reactions including cardiopulmonary arrest have been reported during postmarketing experience.  Cephalosporin class antibiotics have been associated with Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and toxic epidermal necrolysis.[Ref]
Although increases in serum creatinine do not necessarily indicate renal toxicity, urinary alanine aminopeptidase (AAP) has been found to be significantly increased in some patients and may indicate renal tubular cell damage.[Ref]
Renal side effects have included transient increases in serum creatinine and BUN.  Renal impairment has been reported during postmarketing experience.  Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with renal dysfunction and toxic nephropathy.[Ref]
Ceftazidime-induced encephalopathy has been reported in an 80-year-old man with underlying renal dysfunction.  This patient became incoherent and  tremulous and had severe myoclonic jerking in all extremities.  Therapy was discontinued and symptoms abated, but reappeared on rechallenge with a smaller dose.  Symptoms again resolved with discontinuation of ceftazidime therapy.  Several other cases of ceftazidime-induced encephalopathy, and hallucinations have been reported.  In most cases the patients had underlying renal dysfunction.  Symptoms were similar and resolved with dose reduction or drug discontinuation.Neurologic reactions may be more likely to occur in patients with underlying renal dysfunction.  Close monitoring of neurologic status is recommended.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects reported in less than 1% of patients have included headache, dizziness, paresthesia, and seizures.  Encephalopathy, coma, asterixis, neuromuscular excitability, and myoclonia have occurred in patients with renal dysfunction who received unadjusted doses of ceftazidime.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included pemphigus erythematosus and urticaria.[Ref]
Local side effects have included phlebitis and inflammation at the injection site.[Ref]
Other transient hematologic effects, such as thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, and leukopenia, have been observed less frequently.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included transient eosinophilia, positive Coombs test without hemolysis, thrombocytosis, leukopenia, neutropenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, and lymphocytosis.  Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, prolonged prothrombin time, hemorrhage, neutropenia, pancytopenia, and agranulocytosis.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included transient increases in AST, ALT, GGT, and alkaline phosphatase.  These elevations generally resolve after discontinuation of therapy.  Hyperbilirubinemia and jaundice have been reported during postmarketing experience.  Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with hepatic dysfunction, including cholestasis.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included vaginitis and candidiasis.  Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with false-positive tests for urine glucose.[Ref]
Other side effects have included superinfection.[Ref]
1. Warns H, Lode H, Harnoss CM, et al "Multiple dose pharmacokinetics and therapeutic results with ceftazidime." J Antimicrob Chemother 12 (1983): 235-40
2. Ljungberg B, Nilsson-Ehle I "Comparative pharmacokinetics of ceftazidime in young, healthy and elderly, acutely ill males." Eur J Clin Pharmacol 34 (1988): 179-86
3. Ljungberg B, Nilsson-Ehle I "Influence of age on the pharmacokinetics of ceftazidime in acutely ill, adult patients." Eur J Clin Pharmacol 34 (1988): 173-8
4. Nicolau DP,  McNabb J,  Lacy MK,  Quintiliani R,  Nightingale CH

 "Continuous versus intermittent administration of ceftazidime in intensive care unit patients with nosocomial pneumonia." Int J Antimicrob Agents 17 (2001): 497-504
5. "Product Information. Fortaz (ceftazidime)." Glaxo Wellcome, Research Triangle Park, NC. 
6. Harding SM, Monro AJ, Thornton JE, et al "The comparative pharmacokinetics of ceftazidime and cefotaxime in healthy volunteers." J Antimicrob Chemother 8 (1981): 263-72
7. Chierakul W,  Anunnatsiri S,  Short JM, et al. "Two Randomized Controlled Trials of Ceftazidime Alone versus Ceftazidime in Combination with Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole for the Treatment of Severe Melioidosis." Clin Infect Dis 41 (2005): 1105-13
8. Verhagen C, De Oauw BE, Williams KJ, Du Bois W "Ceftazidime sodium carbonate versus ceftazidime arginine as empirical monotherapy in febrile neutropenic patients." Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis 7 (1988): 178-82
9. Gentry LO "Antimicrobial activity, pharmacokinetics, therapeutic indications and adverse reactions of ceftazidime." Pharmacotherapy 5 (1985): 254-67
10. Pimiento AP, Martinez MG, Mena AM, Gonzalez AT, Arranz SD, Mosquera MR "Aztreonam and ceftazidime: evidence of in vivo cross-allergenicity." Allergy 53 (1998): 624-5
11. Filipe P, Almeida RSLS, Rodrigo FG "Occupational allergic contact dermatitis from cephalosporins." Contact Dermatitis 34 (1996): 226
12. Kelkar PS,  Li JT "Cephalosporin allergy." N Engl J Med 345 (2001): 804-9
13. Pizzo PA, Hathorn JW, Hiemenz J, et al "A randomized trial comparing ceftazidime alone with combination antibiotic therapy in cancer patients with fever and neutropenia." N Engl J Med 315 (1986): 552-8
14. Rodjer S, Alestig K, Bergmark J, et al "Treatment of septicaemia in immunocompromised patients with ceftazidime, or with tobramycin and cefuroxime, with special reference to renal effects." J Antimicrob Chemother 20 (1987): 109-16
15. Al-Zahawi MF, Sprott MS, Hendrick DJ "Hallucinations in association with ceftazidime." Br Med J 297 (1988): 858
16. Hillsley RE, Massey EW "Truncal asterixis associated with ceftazidime, a third-generation cephalosporin." Neurology 41 (1991): 2008
17. Slaker RA, Danielson B "Neurotoxicity associated with ceftazidime therapy in geriatric patients with renal dysfunction." Pharmacotherapy 11 (1991): 351-2
18. Klion AD, Kallsen J, Cowl CT, Nauseef WM "Ceftazidime-related nonconvulsive status epilepticus." Arch Intern Med 154 (1994): 586-9
19. Chan S,  Turner MR,  Young L,  Gregory R "Cephalosporin-induced myoclonus." Neurology 66 (2006): E20
20. Jackson GD, Berkovic SF "Ceftazidime encephalopathy: absence status and toxic hallucinations." J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 55 (1992): 333-4
21. Chow KM,  Szeto CC,  Hui AC,  Wong TY,  Li PK "Retrospective review of neurotoxicity induced by cefepime and ceftazidime." Pharmacotherapy 23 (2003): 369-73
22. Douglas MA, Quandt CM, Stanley DA "Ceftazidime-induced encephalopathy in a patient with renal impairment." Arch Neurol 45 (1988): 936-7
23. Pellicano R, Iannantuono M, Lomuto M "Pemphigus erythematosus induced by ceftazidime." Int J Dermatol 32 (1993): 675-6
24. Sommers DK, Walters L, Van Wyk M, et al "Pharmacokinetics of ceftazidime in male and female volunteers." Antimicrob Agents Chemother 23 (1983): 892-6
25. Shimada K, Matsuda T, Inamatsu T, Urayama K "Bleeding secondary to vitamin K deficiency in patients receiving parenteral cephem antibiotics." J Antimicrob Chemother 14 (1984): 325-30
26. Hui CH, Chan LC "Agranulocytosis associated with cephalosporin." BMJ 307 (1993): 484
Not all side effects for ceftazidime may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Abdominal or stomach cramps or tenderness
bloating
bluish color
changes in skin color
diarrhea, watery and severe, which may also be bloody
fever
increased thirst
itching of the vagina or genital area
nausea or vomiting
pain
pain during sexual intercourse
swelling at the site of injection
swelling of the foot or leg
tenderness
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight loss
white patches in the mouth or throat or on the tongue
white patches with diaper rash


Back, leg, or stomach pains
bleeding gums
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chills
cough
dark urine
difficulty with breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
general body swelling
headache
hives
itching
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
nosebleeds
pale skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
shortness of breath
skin rash
sore throat
tightness in the chest
wheezing
yellowing of the eyes or skin


Agitation
bloody or cloudy urine
blurred vision
change in consciousness
chest pain
clay-colored stools
confusion
coughing up blood
decreased frequency or amount of urine
diarrhea
difficult or painful urination
drowsiness
hallucinations
increased blood pressure
increased menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding
increased thirst
irritability
loss of consciousness
lower back or side pain
muscle twitching or jerking
nosebleeds
paralysis
prolonged bleeding from cuts
red or black, tarry stools
red or dark brown urine
rhythmic movement of the muscles
seizures
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stiff neck
sudden decrease in the amount of urine
swelling of the face, fingers, or lower legs
swollen or painful glands
troubled breathing
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
vomiting of blood
watery or bloody diarrhea
weight gain


Red streaks on the skin
swelling, tenderness, or pain at the injection site

