Commonly reported side effects of cefuroxime include: diarrhea.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to cefuroxime: oral powder for suspension, oral tablet
Other dosage forms:
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by cefuroxime. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking cefuroxime:
Some of the side effects that can occur with cefuroxime may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to cefuroxime: injectable powder for injection, intravenous solution, oral powder for reconstitution, oral tablet
Cefuroxime was generally well tolerated.  The side effects most commonly reported with the parenteral formulation have included neutropenia, eosinophilia, transient liver enzyme/bilirubin elevations, and injection site reactions.  The side effects most commonly reported with the oral formulations have included Candida overgrowth, eosinophilia, headache, dizziness, gastrointestinal disturbances, and transient liver enzyme elevations.[Ref]
Side effects may be more likely and more severe in patients with liver disease and/or renal dysfunction.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Diarrhea/loose stools, nausea/vomiting, abdominal pain, nauseaUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Abdominal cramps, flatulence, indigestion, mouth ulcers, swollen tongue, dyspepsia, gastrointestinal (GI) infection, ptyalism/excess salivation, GI disturbance, vomitingFrequency not reported: Abdominal discomfort, dry mouth, Clostridium difficile-associated diarrheaPostmarketing reports: GI disturbances (including diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain), pseudomembranous colitisCephalosporin-class:-Frequency not reported: Vomiting, abdominal pain, colitis[Ref]
The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms has been reported during or after antibacterial therapy.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Transient increase in AST, transient increase in ALT, transient increase in liver enzyme levelsUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Transient increase in bilirubinPostmarketing reports: Hepatic dysfunction, hepatitis, cholestasis, jaundice (mainly cholestatic)Cephalosporin-class:-Frequency not reported: Hepatic dysfunction (including cholestasis)[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Headache, dizzinessUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Sleepiness, somnolence, hyperactivityPostmarketing reports: Seizures, encephalopathy[Ref]
Cephalosporin-class antibiotics (including this drug) have been associated with seizures, especially in patients with renal dysfunction when the dose was not reduced.[Ref]
Delayed hypersensitivity reaction to this drug has been reported in 2.9% of patients with history of delayed hypersensitivity to penicillin (but not a cephalosporin).Rare cases of severe hypersensitivity reactions (including erythema multiforme, toxic epidermal necrolysis [exanthematic necrolysis], drug fever, serum sickness-like reaction, anaphylaxis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome) have been reported.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Delayed hypersensitivity reactionUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Hypersensitivity reactions (including rash, pruritus, urticaria)Rare (0.01% to 0.1%): Severe hypersensitivity reactionsFrequency not reported: Serum sicknessPostmarketing reports: Anaphylaxis, serum sickness-like reaction[Ref]
Profound leukopenia has sometimes been profound with oral therapy.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Eosinophilia, decreased hemoglobin and hematocrit, neutropenia, decreased hemoglobin concentrationUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Positive Coombs test, leukopenia, thrombocytopeniaFrequency not reported: Autoimmune granulocytopenia, increased coagulation timePostmarketing reports: Hemolytic anemia, pancytopenia, increased prothrombin timeCephalosporin-class:-Frequency not reported: Aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, hemorrhage, prolonged prothrombin time, pancytopenia, agranulocytosis[Ref]
Acute renal failure has been reported.  Renal function improved after this drug was stopped, and deteriorated upon rechallenge.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Increased BUN, increased creatinine, decreased CrCl, acute renal failurePostmarketing reports: Renal dysfunction, interstitial nephritis (including reversible fever, azotemia, pyuria, eosinophilia)Cephalosporin-class:-Frequency not reported: Toxic nephropathy[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): VaginitisUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Vulvar itch, dysuria, vaginal candidiasis, vaginal discharge, vaginal itch, urethral pain/bleeding, kidney pain, urinary tract infection, vaginal irritationCephalosporin-class:-Frequency not reported: Vaginitis (including vaginal candidiasis)[Ref]
A case of occupational contact dermatitis due to cephalosporin allergy has been reported in a nurse who prepared cephalosporin solutions for administration to patients.  The dermatitis resolved after the nurse stopped preparing the solutions.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Diaper/nappy rashUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Rash, urticaria/hives, pruritus, erythemaRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Erythema multiforme, toxic epidermal necrolysis (exanthematic necrolysis), Stevens-Johnson syndromeFrequency not reported: Acute generalized exanthematous pustulosisPostmarketing reports: Angioedema, urticaria, toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, cutaneous vasculitis[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): AnorexiaCephalosporin-class:-Frequency not reported: Urine glucose false positive[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Transient increase in LDH, transient increase in alkaline phosphatase, Candida overgrowth, dislike of tasteUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Chest pain/tightness, chills, thirst, viral illness, candidiasis, feverRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Drug feverFrequency not reported: Clostridium difficile overgrowth, disulfiram reaction[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Shortness of breath, sinusitis, cough, upper respiratory infection[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Muscle cramps, muscle stiffness, muscle spasm of the neck, lockjaw-type reaction, joint swelling, arthralgia[Ref]
A 90-year-old man, with no history of coronary artery disease, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, or hyperlipidemia, was administered 750 mg cefuroxime axetil IM for urinary tract infection.  About 10 minutes after the injection, the patient developed chest pain and pruritic skin rashes.  Kounis syndrome type I variant was diagnosed secondary to the drug.  Five days after stopping the drug, the patient's symptoms had resolved.[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): TachycardiaFrequency not reported: Kounis syndrome type I variant[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Injection site reactions (including pain, thrombophlebitis), thrombophlebitis with IV administrationFrequency not reported: Pain at IM injection site[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Irritable behavior
1. Bulpitt D, Potter CE, Jaderberg M "A large scale, general practice based investigation into the clinical efficacy and tolerability of cefuroxime axetil in women with uncomplicated urinary tract infect." Curr Med Res Opin 12 (1991): 318-24
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
3. Hebblethwaite EM, Brown GW, Cox DM "A comparison of the efficacy and safety of cefuroxime axetil and augmentin in the treatment of upper respiratory tract infections." Drugs Exp Clin Res 13 (1987): 91-4
4. Griffiths GK, Vandenburg MJ, Wight LJ, et al "Efficacy and tolerability of cefuroxime axetil in patients with upper respiratory tract infections." Curr Med Res Opin 10 (1987): 555-61
5. "Product Information. Ceftin (cefuroxime)." Glaxo Wellcome, Research Triangle Park, NC. 
6. Yangco BG, Lowe J, Nolen TM, et al "A multicenter trial comparing the efficacy and safety of cefuroxime axetil and cefaclor in pneumonia of adults." Clin Ther 12 (1990): 440-6
7. Henry D, Ruoff GE, Rhudy J, Puopolo A, Drehobl M, Schoenberger J, Giguere G, Collins JJ "Clinical comparison of cefuroxime axetil and amoxicillin/clavulanate in the treatment of patients with secondary bacterial infections of acute bronchitis." Clin Ther 17 (1995): 861-74
8. "Product Information. Zinacef (cefuroxime)." Glaxo Wellcome, Research Triangle Park, NC. 
9. Henry D, Ruoff GE, Rhudy J, Puopolo A, Drehobl M, Schoenberger J, Giguere G, Collins JJ "Effectiveness of short-course therapy (5 days) with cefuroxime axetil in treatment of secondary bacterial infections of acute bronchitis." Antimicrob Agents Chemother 39 (1995): 2528-34
10. Pines A, Raafat H, Kennedy MR, Mullinger BM "Experience with cefuroxime in 190 patients with severe respiratory infections." Chemotherapy 26 (1980): 212-7
11. Abramowicz M, Aaron H "Cefuroxime axetil." Med Lett Drugs Ther 30 (1988): 57-9
12. Sommers D, Van Wyk M, Williams PE, Harding SM "Pharmacokinetics and tolerance of cefuroxime axetil in volunteers during repeated dosing." Antimicrob Agents Chemother 25 (1984): 344-7
13. Higuera F, Hidalgo H, Feris J, Giguere G, Collins JJ "Comparison of oral cefuroxime axetil and oral amoxycillin/clavulanate in the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia." J Antimicrob Chemother 37 (1996): 555-64
14. Cannon SR, Dyson PH, Sanderson PJ "Pseudomembranous colitis associated with antibiotic prophylaxis in orthopaedic surgery." J Bone Joint Surg Br 70 (1988): 600-2
15. Holloway KL, Smith KW, Wilberger JE, Jemsek JG, Giguere GC, Collins JJ "Antibiotic prophylaxis during clean neurosurgery: a large, multicenter study using cefuroxime." Clin Ther 18 (1996): 84-94
16. Wormser GP "Clinical practice. Early Lyme disease." N Engl J Med 354 (2006): 2794-801
17. Baniasadi S,  Fahimi F,  Mansouri D "Serum sickness-like reaction associated with cefuroxime and ceftriaxone." Ann Pharmacother 41 (2007):
18. Romano A, Mayorga C, Torres MJ, Artesani MC, Suau R, Sanchez F, Perez E, Venuti A, Blanca M "Immediate allergic reactions to cephalosporins: Cross-reactivity and selective responses." J Allerg Clin Immunol 106 (2000): 1177-83
19. Romano A, Quaratino D, Venuti A, Venemalm L, Mayorga C, Blanca M "Selective type-1 hypersensitivity to cefuroxime." J Allergy Clin Immunol 101 (1998): 564-5
20. Filipe P, Almeida RSLS, Rodrigo FG "Occupational allergic contact dermatitis from cephalosporins." Contact Dermatitis 34 (1996): 226
21. Saeed SAM, Bazza M, Zaman M, Ryatt KS "Cefuroxime induced lymphomatoid hypersensitivity reaction." Postgrad Med J 76 (2000): 577-9
22. Viken R, Van Arsdel PP "Allergy to cephalosporins." JAMA 265 (1991): 2254
23. Murphy MF, Metcalfe P, Grint PC, et al "Cephalosporin-induced immune neutropenia." Br J Haematol 59 (1985): 9-14
24. Malloy CA,  Kiss JE,  Challapalli M "Cefuroxime-induced immune hemolysis." J Pediatr 143 (2003): 130-2
25. Goddard JK, Janning SW, Gass JS, Wilson RF "Cefuroxime-induced acute renal failure." Pharmacotherapy 14 (1994): 488-91
26. Manley HJ, Bailie GR, Eisele G "Bilateral renal cortical necrosis associated with cefuroxime axetil." Clin Nephrol 49 (1998): 268-70
27. Leong CL, Thiruventhiran T "Cefuroxime-induced acute renal failure." Nephron 84 (2000): 185
28. Cohen AD,  Cagnano E,  Halevy S "Acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis mimicking toxic epidermal necrolysis." Int J Dermatol 40 (2001): 458-61
29. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
30. Mattes JA "Antabuse reaction with ceftin." Am J Psychiatry 163 (2006): 2019-20
31. Biteker M,  Duran NE,  Biteker FS, et al. "Kounis syndrome secondary to cefuroxime-axetil use in an octogenerian." J Am Geriatr Soc 56 (2008): 1757-1758
Not all side effects for cefuroxime may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
powder for solution, solution

Chills
diarrhea
fever
general feeling of illness or discomfort
headache
itching of the vagina or genital area
pain during sexual intercourse
rigidity
sweating
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor


Black, tarry stools
chest pain
cough
loose stools
painful or difficult urination
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swollen glands
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness


Back, leg, or stomach pains
bladder pain
bleeding gums
bloody or cloudy urine
body aches or pain
burning while urinating
dark urine
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
frequent urge to urinate
general body swelling
loss of appetite
loss of voice
lower back or side pain
nasal congestion
nausea or vomiting
nosebleeds
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
pale skin
pink or red urine
sneezing
stuffy or runny nose
swelling of the joints
swollen glands
tightness of chest or wheezing
white or brownish vaginal discharge
white patches in the mouth or throat or on the tongue
white patches with diaper rash
yellowing of the eyes or skin


Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloody, black, or tarry stools
clay-colored stools
cough or hoarseness
coughing up blood
decrease in urine output or decrease in urine-concentrating ability
feeling of discomfort
fever with or without chills
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
high fever
hives
increased menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
light-colored stools
paralysis
prolonged bleeding from cuts
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red or black, tarry stools
red or dark brown urine
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
seizures
swollen lymph glands
swollen or painful glands
unpleasant breath odor
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
vomiting of blood


Bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
change in taste
diaper rash


Abdominal or stomach cramps
acid or sour stomach
belching
bloated
difficulty with moving
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
flushing or redness of the skin
full feeling
gas in the stomach
heartburn
indigestion
irritability
irritation or soreness of the mouth
itching skin
muscle pain or stiffness
muscle spasm of the neck
passing gas
restlessness
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
swelling of the tongue
thirst
trouble sitting still
unusually warm skin
watering of the mouth and drooling
weight loss


Hives or welts
redness of the skin 

