Cefprozil (the active ingredient contained in Cefzil) is generally well-tolerated.
Up to 20% of patients with penicillin allergy may demonstrate allergy to cefprozil (the active ingredient contained in Cefzil) 
Hypersensitivity reactions have included rash (0.9%), urticaria (0.1%), anaphylaxis, angioedema, bronchospasm, eosinophilia, erythema multiforme, fever, serum-sickness-like reactions, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome.
Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported in patients treated with cephalosporin antibiotics.  If diarrhea occurs and is unresponsive to discontinuation of the drug and/or standard therapy, pseudomembranous colitis should be considered.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea (3.5%), diarrhea (2.9%), vomiting (1%), and abdominal pain (1%).  Rare cases of Clostridium difficile colitis have been reported with some cephalosporins.
Hematologic side effects have included eosinophilia (2.3%), decreased leukocyte count (0.2%), and thrombocytopenia.  Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, hemorrhage, prolonged prothrombin time, positive Coombs' test, pancytopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis.
Renal side effects have included elevated serum creatinine (0.1%) and BUN (0.1%).  Some other cephalosporins have included interstitial nephritis.  (Reversible fever, azotemia, pyuria, and eosinophiluria are the hallmarks of cephalosporin-induced interstitial nephritis.)  Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with toxic nephropathy and renal dysfunction.
Genitourinary side effects have included vaginitis and genital pruritus in 1.6% of patients.
Hepatic side effects have included increased AST (2%), ALT (2%), alkaline phosphatase (0.2%), and bilirubin (<0.1%).  Some cephalosporins have been associated with rare cases of cholestatic jaundice.  Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with elevated LDH.
Nervous system side effects have included dizziness in 1% of patients, and hyperactivity, headache, nervousness, insomnia, confusion, and somnolence in <1%.  Some cephalosporins have been associated with seizures, primarily when dosages were not reduced in renally impaired patients.
Other side effects have included superinfection and diaper rash in 1.5% of patients.
Dermatologic side effects have included rash (0.9%), urticaria (0.1%), and erythema multiforme.  Cefprozil (the active ingredient contained in Cefzil) has been associated with rash in a patients with infectious mononucleosis.
Black, tarry stools
chest pain
cough or hoarseness
diarrhea
fever or chills
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
shortness of breath
sore throat sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swollen glands
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Abdominal or stomach cramps, pain, or tenderness
bleeding gums
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating
blood in the urine or stools
clay-colored stools
dark urine
diarrhea, watery and severe, which may also be bloody
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
feeling of discomfort
headache
hives
increased thirst
inflammation of the joints
itching
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
muscle aches
nausea or vomiting
pain
pinpoint red spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rash
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
shortness of breath
swollen lymph glands
tightness in the chest
unpleasant breath odor
unusual weight loss
vomiting of blood
watery or bloody diarrhea
wheezing
yellow eyes or skin
Back, leg, or stomach pains
bleeding gums
bloody or cloudy urine
bloody, black, or tarry stools
decrease in urine output or decrease in urine-concentrating ability
difficulty with breathing
fever with or without chills
general body swelling
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
high fever
nosebleeds
pale skin
sudden decrease in the amount of urine
swollen or painful glands
Itching or pain of the vagina or genital area
pain during sexual intercourse
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
Confusion
hives or welts
nervousness
redness of the skin
restlessness
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sleeplessness
trouble sitting still
trouble with sleeping
unable to sleep