Generic Name: imiglucerase
Applies to imiglucerase: intravenous powder for solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by imiglucerase (the active ingredient contained in Cerezyme). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
Some of the side effects that can occur with imiglucerase may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to imiglucerase: intravenous powder for injection
Hypersensitivity side effects including symptoms suggestive of hypersensitivity have been noted in approximately 6.6% of patients.  Anaphylactoid reaction has also been reported.[Ref]
Onset of hypersensitivity symptoms has occurred during or shortly after infusions.  These symptoms include pruritus, flushing, urticaria, angioedema, chest discomfort, dyspnea, coughing, cyanosis, and hypotension.  Each of these events was found to occur in less than 1.5% of the total patient population.  Pretreatment with antihistamines and/or corticosteroids and reduced rate of infusion have allowed continued use of imiglucerase in most patients.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea have been reported have been reported in less than 1.5% of the total patient population.[Ref]
General side effects including fatigue, headache, abdominal pain, fever, dizziness, chills, and backache have been reported in less than 1.5% of the total patient population.[Ref]
Local side effects including discomfort, pruritus, burning, swelling or sterile abscess at the site of venipuncture.  Each of these events was found to occur in less than 1% of the total patient population.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects including tachycardia (less than 1.5%) have been reported.  In addition to the adverse reactions that have been reported in patients treated with imiglucerase (the active ingredient contained in Cerezyme)  transient peripheral edema has been reported for this therapeutic class of drug.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects including rash (less than 1.5%) have been reported.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Cerezyme (imiglucerase)." Genzyme Corporation, Cambridge, MA. 
Not all side effects for Cerezyme may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Abdominal discomfort
decrease in blood pressure, decrease in frequency of urination
dizziness 
headache
itching
nausea
rash

