Generic Name: chaste tree (Not applicable.)
Brand Name: Examples include Prelieve PMS and Vitex Extract
Irregularities of the menstrual cycle, premenstrual syndrome (PMS), and breast pain. It may also have other uses. Check with your pharmacist for details regarding the particular brand you use.
Chaste tree is an herbal product. It is thought to work by regulating hormone production through the pituitary gland in the brain.
Contact your doctor or health care provider right away if any of these apply to you.
Some medical conditions may interact with chaste tree. Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you have any medical conditions, especially if any of the following apply to you:
Some MEDICINES MAY INTERACT with chaste tree. Tell your health care provider if you are taking any other medicines, especially any of the following:
This may not be a complete list of all interactions that may occur. Ask your health care provider if chaste tree may interact with other medicines that you take. Check with your health care provider before you start, stop, or change the dose of any medicine.
Use chaste tree as directed by your doctor. Check the label on the medicine for exact dosing instructions.
Ask your health care provider any questions you may have about how to use chaste tree.
All medicines may cause side effects, but many people have no, or minor, side effects. Check with your doctor if any of these most COMMON side effects persist or become bothersome:
Acne; cramping; diarrhea; hair loss; headache; increased menstrual flow; stomach pain; tiredness.
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; itching; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, or tongue).
This is not a complete list of all side effects that may occur. If you have questions about side effects, contact your health care provider. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. To report side effects to the appropriate agency, please read the Guide to Reporting Problems to FDA.
Contact 1-800-222-1222 (the American Association of Poison Control Centers), your local poison control center, or emergency room immediately.
Store at room temperature away from heat, moisture, and light unless otherwise directed on the package label. Do not store in the bathroom. Most herbal products are not in childproof containers. Keep chaste tree out of the reach of children and away from pets.
This information should not be used to decide whether or not to take chaste tree or any other medicine. Only your health care provider has the knowledge and training to decide which medicines are right for you. This information does not endorse any medicine as safe, effective, or approved for treating any patient or health condition. This is only a brief summary of general information about chaste tree. It does NOT include all information about the possible uses, directions, warnings, precautions, interactions, adverse effects, or risks that may apply to chaste tree. This information is not specific medical advice and does not replace information you receive from your health care provider. You must talk with your healthcare provider for complete information about the risks and benefits of using chaste tree.

you are allergic to any ingredient in chaste tree
you are pregnant


if you are planning to become pregnant or are breast-feeding
if you are taking any prescription or nonprescription medicine, herbal preparation, or dietary supplement
if you have allergies to medicines, foods, or other substances


Dopamine agonists (eg, bromocriptine, levodopa) because side effects may be increased by chaste tree


Dosing depends on the use and the source of the product.
Use as directed on the package, unless instructed otherwise by your doctor.
It may take several days to months for this product to work.
If you miss taking a dose of chaste tree for 1 or more days, there is no cause for concern. If your doctor recommended that you take it, try to remember your dose every day.


Chaste tree may reduce the effectiveness of birth control pills. Use an additional form of contraception (eg, condoms) while you are taking this product.
If you will be taking this product for irregularities of the menstrual cycle or for breast pain and swelling, consult your doctor first. It is important to receive an accurate diagnosis of your symptoms before taking this product.
This product has not been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as safe and effective for any medical condition. The long-term safety of herbal products is not known. Before using any alternative medicine, talk with your doctor or pharmacist.
PREGNANCY and BREAST-FEEDING: Do not take this product if you are pregnant. If you are or will be breast-feeding while you are using this product, check with your doctor or pharmacist to discuss the risks to your baby.


If you have any questions about chaste tree, please talk with your doctor, pharmacist, or other health care provider.
Chaste tree is to be used only by the patient for whom it is prescribed. Do not share it with other people.
If your symptoms do not improve or if they become worse, check with your doctor.
Check with your pharmacist about how to dispose of unused medicine.

