Applies to chlorzoxazone: oral capsule, oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by chlorzoxazone. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking chlorzoxazone:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking chlorzoxazone, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with chlorzoxazone may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to chlorzoxazone: compounding powder, oral tablet
Gastrointestinal side effects of chlorzoxazone have rarely included gastrointestinal bleeding.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included drowsiness, dizziness, light-headedness, malaise, and overstimulation.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have rarely included skin rashes, petechiae, angioneurotic edema, anaphylactic reactions, and ecchymoses.[Ref]
Renal side effects attributed to a phenolic metabolite have rarely included urine discoloration.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Parafon Forte (chlorzoxazone)." Ortho McNeol Pharmceutical, Raritan, NJ. 
Not all side effects for chlorzoxazone may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bloody or black, tarry stools
clay-colored stools
constipation
cough
dark urine
decreased appetite
difficulty swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
fever
headache
hives
itching
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
nausea and vomiting
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
severe stomach pain
shortness of breath
skin rash
swelling of the feet or lower legs
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
wheezing
yellow eyes or skin


Diarrhea
difficult or troubled breathing
drowsiness
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
irregular, fast or slow, or shallow breathing
lightheadedness
nausea
pale or blue lips, fingernails, or skin
sluggishness
vomiting


Bruising
large, flat, blue, or purplish patches in the skin
small red or purple spots on the skin

