Generic Name: cholic acid
Applies to cholic acid: oral capsule
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by cholic acid (the active ingredient contained in Cholbam). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking cholic acid:
Some of the side effects that can occur with cholic acid may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to cholic acid: oral capsule
The most common adverse reactions have included diarrhea, reflux esophagitis, malaise, jaundice, skin lesions, nausea, abdominal pain, intestinal polyp, urinary tract infection, and peripheral neuropathy.[Ref]
Ten patients, five with single enzyme defect (SED) and 5 with peroxisomal disorders (PD) experienced worsening transaminases, elevated bilirubin values, or worsening cholestasis on liver biopsy during treatment.  Of these 10 patients, five (3 SED and 2 PD) had liver impairment at baseline while the other 5 did not have baseline cholestasis, but experienced exacerbation of liver disease while on treatment.  Exacerbation by this drug could not be ruled out.  Deaths attributed to progression of underlying liver disease were reported in 5 patients aged 1 year or less in trial 1 (SED, n=50; PD, n=29); three patients had AKR1D1 deficiency, 1 had 3beta-HSD and 1 had CYP7A1 deficiency.  Of the 29 patients in trial 1 with PDs including Zellweger spectrum disorders, 12 patients aged 7 months to 2.5 years died; 8 of the 12 deaths were attributed to progression of underlying liver disease or a worsening of their primary illness.  Two additional deaths in trial 1 were both patients who had been off study medication for more than 1 year; their deaths were most likely due to a progression of their underlying liver disease.  In trial 2 (SED, n=31; PD, n=12) 2 patients with SED died; cause of death was unrelated to their primary treatment or progression of their underlying liver disease.  Four patients between the ages of 4 and 8 years with PD died (1 new patient and 3 who rolled over from trial 1); cause of death in 3 of these 4 patients was attributed to progression of underlying liver disease or worsening of their primary illness.  One patient with 3 beta-HSD deficiency developed symptomatic cholelithiasis requiring cholecystectomy.  Gallstones have been reported after long-term therapy.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Exacerbation of hepatic impairment including deaths, jaundiceUncommon (0.1% to 1%): CholelithiasisFrequency not reported: Transaminase increased, gallstones[Ref]
Pruritus and/or persistent diarrhea may be signs of a potential overdose and should be investigated as such.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Diarrhea, reflux esophagitis, nausea, abdominal pain, intestinal polyp[Ref]
Pruritus and/or persistent diarrhea may be signs of a potential overdose and should be investigated as such.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Skin lesionFrequency not reported: Pruritus[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infection[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Peripheral neuropathy[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Malaise[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Cholbam (cholic acid)." Manchester Pharmaceutical, Fort Collins, CO. 
Not all side effects for Cholbam may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Abdominal or stomach pain
chills
clay-colored stools
dark urine
diarrhea
dizziness
fever
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
headache
itching or rash
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
nausea
stomach pain, continuing
unpleasant breath odor
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin


Bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
clay-colored stools
dark urine
difficult, burning, or painful urination
frequent urge to urinate
lower back or side pain
unpleasant breath odor


Burning, numbness, tingling, or painful sensations
chest pain
difficulty with swallowing
general feeling of discomfort or illness
heartburn
pain or burning in the throat
skin lesions
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or tongue or inside the mouth
unsteadiness or awkwardness
weakness in the arms, hands, legs, or feet

