Commonly reported side effects of chorionic gonadotropin (hcg) include: multiple gestation.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to chorionic gonadotropin (hcg): powder for solution, solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by chorionic gonadotropin (hcg). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking chorionic gonadotropin (hcg), check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some of the side effects that can occur with chorionic gonadotropin (hcg) may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:
After you stop taking this drug, it is possible that you may still experience side effects that need medical attention. If you notice any of the following side effects check with your doctor immediately:


Applies to chorionic gonadotropin (hcg): injectable powder for injection, intramuscular powder for injection, subcutaneous powder for injection, subcutaneous solution
General side effects have included headache, irritability, restlessness, fatigue, and edema.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included precocious puberty and gynecomastia.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects have included depression.[Ref]
Local side effects have included pain at the site of injection.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included isolated cases of allergic reactions, manifesting mainly as mild reversible skin rashes.  Postmarketing reports have included anaphylactic reactions.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included the occurrence of arterial thromboembolism.
1. "Product Information. Novarel (chorionic gonadotropin (HCG))." Ferring Pharmaceuticals Inc, Tarrytown, NY. 
Not all side effects for chorionic gonadotropin (hcg) may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bloating (mild)
stomach or pelvic pain 


Abdominal or stomach pain (severe)
 bloating (moderate to severe)
decreased amount of urine
feeling of indigestion
 nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea (continuing or severe)
 pelvic pain (severe)
shortness of breath
swelling of feet or lower legs
weight gain (rapid)


Acne
enlargement of penis and testes 
growth of pubic hair
 increase in height (rapid)


difficult or labored breathing 
difficulty breathing
 flushing of skin
hives or welts
 itching of skin
large, hive-like swelling on face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, sex organs
pain in chest, groin, or legs, especially the calves
redness of skin
severe, sudden headache 
skin rash
slurred speech 
sudden loss of coordination
 sudden, severe weakness or numbness in arm or leg
 sudden, unexplained shortness of breath
tightness in chest
unusually warm skin
 vision changes
wheezing


Discouragement
enlargement of breasts 
feeling sad or empty
 headache
irritability
 lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
pain at place of injection
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
 tiredness


Abdominal or stomach pain (severe)
 bloating (moderate to severe)
decreased amount of urine
feeling of indigestion
 nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea (continuing or severe)
 pelvic pain (severe)
shortness of breath
weight gain (rapid)

