Generic Name: ciclopirox topical
Applies to ciclopirox topical: topical cream, topical gel/jelly, topical lotion, topical powder, topical shampoo, topical solution, topical suspension
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by ciclopirox topical (the active ingredient contained in Ciclodan). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking ciclopirox topical, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some of the side effects that can occur with ciclopirox topical may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to ciclopirox topical: compounding powder, topical cream, topical gel, topical kit, topical lotion, topical shampoo, topical solution, topical suspension
Nervous system side effects associated with the use of ciclopirox shampoo have included headache.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects associated with ciclopirox shampoo have included ventricular tachycardia.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included irritation, itching, erythema, and burning in 1% to 4% of treated patients.  Seborrhea was the most common cause of early termination in subjects being treated with the shampoo.  The shampoo has also been associated with rash and skin disorder.  The topical nail solution has been associated with periungul erythema (1%) and proximal nail fold erythema, nail shape change, irritation, ingrown toenail, and nail discoloration.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects associated with the topical nail solution have included 1 case of elevated creatine phosphokinase.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Loprox (ciclopirox)." Hoechst Marion-Roussel Inc, Kansas City, MO. 
2. "Product Information. Penlac Nail Lacquer (ciclopirox topical)." Aventis Pharmaceuticals, Collegeville, PA. 
Not all side effects for Ciclodan may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

 Fainting
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
palpitations


Burning, itching, redness, swelling, or other signs of irritation not present before use of this medicine


 Dandruff
headache
itching skin or scalp
oily skin
 rash
skin disorder

