Commonly reported side effects of cilostazol include: infection, change in stool, diarrhea, dizziness, headache, palpitations, and pharyngitis. Other side effects include: abdominal pain, peripheral edema, rhinitis, and tachycardia.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to cilostazol: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by cilostazol. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking cilostazol:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking cilostazol, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with cilostazol may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to cilostazol: oral tablet
Nervous system side effects have commonly included headache (34%) resulting in discontinuation in 3.5% of patients.  Dizziness (10%) and vertigo (2%) have also been reported.  Other less frequently reported side effects have included asthenia, hyperesthesia, and paresthesia.  Postmarketing reports have included intracranial hemorrhage, cerebral hemorrhage, cerebrovascular accident, extradural hematoma and subdural hematoma.[Ref]
An increase in ventricular premature beats and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia have been seen in Holter monitored patients.  Cardiovascular damage including endocardial hemorrhage, left ventricular fibrosis, and necrosis of smooth muscle in coronary arteries has been demonstrated in dogs after 52 weeks of cilostazol administration.In the AT-BAT study, one patient died during a bradycardic episode 46 hours after a successful PCI, another patient required surgical revascularization, and one patient experienced no reflow requiring a temporary intra-aortic balloon.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included palpitations (10%) and tachycardia (4%).  Peripheral edema has been reported in 7% of patients, and hypertension and angina pectoris have been reported in 2% of patients.  Atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, cerebral infarct, cerebral ischemia, congestive heart failure, heart arrest, hemorrhage, hypotension, myocardial infarction, myocardial ischemia, nodal arrhythmia, postural hypotension, supraventricular tachycardia, syncope, varicose vein, vasodilation, ventricular extrasystoles, and ventricular tachycardia have also been reported.  Post marketing reports have included torsades de pointes and QTc prolongation in patients with cardiac disorders, e.g.  complete atrioventricular block, cardiac failure and bradyarrhythmia.  In these reports cilostazol was used "off label" due to its positive chronotropic action.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea (19%), nausea (7%), dyspepsia (6%), abdominal pain (5%), flatulence (3%) and vomiting (2%).  Other gastrointestinal side effects have included anorexia, cholelithiasis, colitis, duodenal ulcer, duodenitis, esophageal hemorrhage, esophagitis, increased GGT, gastritis, gastroenteritis, gum hemorrhage, hematemesis, melena, peptic ulcer, periodontal abscess, rectal hemorrhage, stomach ulcer, and tongue edema.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included back pain (7%), myalgia (3%), leg cramps (2%), and arthritis (2%).[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included pharyngitis (10%), rhinitis (7%), increased cough (4%), dyspnea (2%), and bronchitis (2%).  Postmarketing reports have included pulmonary hemorrhage and interstitial pneumonia.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included rash in 2% of patients.  Postmarketing reports have included pruritus and skin eruptions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome.[Ref]
In the AT-BAT study, one patient who did not undergo PCI had major bleeding during CABG on the day following angiography, nine patients had minor bleeding (mostly due to access site bleeding), and two patients developed moderate thrombocytopenia.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included postmarketing reports of thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia, leukopenia, and bleeding tendencies.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included postmarketing reports of jaundice, hepatic dysfunction and abnormal liver function tests.[Ref]
Renal side effects have included postmarketing reports of increased BUN and hematuria.[Ref]
1. Pratt CM "Analysis of the cilostazol safety database." Am J Cardiol 87 (2001): d28-33
2. Ohashi S, Iwatani Y, Hyakuna Y, Morioka Y "Thermographic evaluation of the hemodynamic effect of the antithrombotic cilostazol in peripheral arterial occclusion." Arzneimittelforschung 35 (1985): 1203-8
3. Atarashi H, Endoh Y, Saitoh H, Kishida H, Hayakawa H "Chronotropic effects of cilostazol, a new antithrombotic agent, in patients with bradyarrhythmias." J Cardiovasc Pharmacol 31 (1998): 534-9
4. "Product Information. Pletal (cilostazol)." Otsuka American Pharmaceuticals, Rockville, MD. 
5. Money SR, Herd JA, Isaacsohn JL, Davidson M, Cutler B, Heckman J, Forbes WP "Effect of cilostazol on walking distances in patients with intermittent claudication caused by peripheral vascular disease." J Vasc Surg 27 (1998): 267-74;disc. 274-5
6. Sekiya M, Funada J, Watanabe K, Miyagawa M, Akutsu H "Effects of probucol and cilostazol alone and in combination on frequency of poststenting restenosis." Am J Cardiol 82 (1998): 144-7
7. Niki T, Mori H "Phase I study of cilostazol. Safety evaluation at increasing single doses in healthy volunteers." Arzneimittelforschung 35 (1985): 1173-85
Not all side effects for cilostazol may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Fast or irregular heartbeat
fever


Abnormal bleeding
bloody or black tarry stools
bruises or red spots on the skin
fainting
nausea, heartburn, or indigestion (severe or continuing)
nosebleeds
stiff neck
stomach pain, cramping, or burning (severe)
swelling of the tongue
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds


Abdominal or stomach pain
area rash
bleeding gums
bleeding tendency
blistering, peeling, loosening of the skin
blood in the urine or stools
blurred vision
chest pain
chills
clay-colored stools
confusion
cough or hoarseness
coughing up blood
dark urine
diarrhea
difficulty with breathing
drowsiness
fever with or without chills
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
headache, sudden and severe
inability to speak
itching of the eyes
itching of the skin
joint or muscle pain
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
loss of consciousness
lower back or side pain
nausea and vomiting
painful or difficult urination
pinpoint red spots on the skin
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
seizures
skin rash
slurred speech
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stomach pain
swollen glands
temporary blindness
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
weakness in the arm or leg on one side of the body, sudden and severe
weakness of part of the body
yellow eyes or skin


Diarrhea
dizziness or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position
fast or irregular heartbeat
headache (severe)


Back pain
dizziness
gas
headache
increased cough
pain or stiffness in the muscles
pounding heartbeat
runny or stuffy nose
sore throat
swelling of the arms or legs


Bone pain
burning feeling in the throat or chest
difficulty with swallowing
hives
pain or stiffness in the joints
ringing or buzzing in the ears
swelling of the face, fingers, or lower legs


Bruising
hot flushes
pain

