Generic Name: reslizumab
Applies to reslizumab: intravenous solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by reslizumab (the active ingredient contained in Cinqair). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking reslizumab, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with reslizumab may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to reslizumab: intravenous solution
Common (1% to 10%): Oropharyngeal pain[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Elevated baseline creatine phosphokinase (CPK) (14%)[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Anaphylaxis[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Treatment emergent anti-reslizumab (the active ingredient contained in Cinqair) antibody response (low titer and often transient)[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Elevated baseline creatine phosphokinase (CPK) (14%)Common (1% to 10%): Myalgia, chest pain, neck pain, muscle spasms, extremity pain, muscle fatigue, musculoskeletal pain[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Malignancy[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Cinqair (reslizumab)." Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, North Wales, PA. 
Not all side effects for Cinqair may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Cough
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fast heartbeat
hives, itching, or skin rash
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
redness of the skin
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness


Throat pain


Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site

