 Check with your doctor if any of these most COMMON side effects persist or become bothersome:
Coughing; dizziness; drowsiness; dry mouth; excitability; fatigue; headache; loss of appetite; mild stomach upset; nausea; nervousness; sleeplessness; sore throat; thirst.
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; itching; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, or tongue); chest pain; difficulty urinating; fast or irregular heartbeat; mental or mood changes; seizures; severe dizziness; uncontrolled shaking or tremor.
Nervous system side effects of loratadine have included headaches in approximately 7% of treated patients.  Loratadine has not been shown to cause significant drowsiness, sedation, or impair psychomotor skills.Nervous system side effects of pseudoephedrine have included nervous system stimulation, resulting in tremor, anxiety, and nervousness.  Insomnia has been reported in up to 30% of pseudoephedrine-treated patients.  Headache, somnolence, and dizziness have also occurred in patients receiving pseudoephedrine.
Cardiovascular side effects of loratadine have included at least one report of syncopal episodes, premature ventricular complexes, and a prolonged QT interval.
Pseudoephedrine causes vasoconstriction which generally does not produce hypertension, but may be problematic for patients with preexisting hypertension.  Arrhythmias may be produced in predisposed patients.  Rarely, pseudoephedrine has been reported to cause coronary artery spasm and chest pain.Adverse effects which have been reported during therapy with loratadine and pseudoephedrine included dizziness, syncopal episodes, palpitations, ventricular arrhythmias including torsades de pointes, cardiac arrest, and cardiac death.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included anorexia and gastric irritation in approximately 5% of patients treated with pseudoephedrine.  Dry mouth, nose, or throat have occurred in up to 15% of patients.  Gastrointestinal effects of loratadine have been rare and included nausea and dry mouth.  A few cases of mechanical upper gastrointestinal tract obstruction have been reported with Claritin-D 24 Hour tablets (brand of loratadine-pseudoephedrine), primarily in patients who have difficulty swallowing tablets or in whom there is upper gastrointestinal tract narrowing or abnormal esophageal peristalsis.  Ischemic colitis has been reported.
Hypersensitivity side effects of pseudoephedrine have included reports of fixed drug eruptions.