Generic Name: clindamycin
Applies to clindamycin: oral capsule, oral powder for solution
Other dosage forms:
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by clindamycin (the active ingredient contained in Cleocin Pediatric). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking clindamycin:


Applies to clindamycin: compounding powder, injectable solution, intravenous solution, oral capsule, oral powder for reconstitution
The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antibacterial treatment and is associated with the presence of Clostridium difficile toxin in the stool.  Pseudomembranous colitis may also be associated with toxic megacolon, which can be life-threatening.An unpleasant or metallic taste has occasionally been reported after high doses of IV clindamycin (the active ingredient contained in Cleocin Pediatric) [Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Pseudomembranous colitis, diarrhea, abdominal painUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Dysgeusia, nausea, vomitingFrequency not reported: Esophageal ulcers, esophagitis (oral preparations)[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Maculopapular rashUncommon (0.1% to 1%): UrticariaRare (less than 0.1%): Erythema multiforme, pruritusFrequency not reported: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis, bullous dermatitis, generalized mild to moderate morbilliform-like rash, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), Sweet's SyndromePostmarketing reports: Serious cutaneous adverse reaction[Ref]
Rash was particularly common in AIDS patients.A 47-year-old female patient with multiple comorbidities was diagnosed with Sweet's Syndrome.  The patient's symptoms developed 2 days after initiating oral clindamycin therapy for a tooth infection.  The patient's symptoms persisted despite tooth extraction and continuance of antibiotic treatment with intravenous, then oral, clindamycin.  Following discontinuation of clindamycin, the patient's symptoms resolved over several days.  Drug-induced Sweet's syndrome was determined based on the temporal relationship of the patient's symptoms, the beginning and end of clindamycin therapy, and the exclusion of other etiologies.Three days after starting oral clindamycin for the persistence of symptoms following a root canal, a 34-year-old male patient reported "pimples" on his scalp which changed to pustules 24 hours later.  The lesions progressed and the patient's antibiotic therapy was discontinued.  Two days later, the rash improved considerably.  The patient met the diagnostic criteria for drug-induced Sweet's syndrome and clindamycin was the most likely cause due to the timeline of antibiotic therapy and the patient's improvement following its discontinuation.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Anaphylactoid reactions, drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic systems (DRESS)[Ref]
Cardiorespiratory arrest and hypotension have been reported after too rapid IV administration.  Thrombophlebitis has been reported after intravenous infusion.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Thrombophlebitis (after IV infusion)Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Cardiorespiratory arrest, hypotension[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Vaginitis[Ref]
Neutropenia (ANC 945 cells/mm3) occurred in a 68-year-old male 6 days after receiving a single 600 mg oral dose of clindamycin (the active ingredient contained in Cleocin Pediatric)   The neutrophil count normalized after 2 weeks.[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): EosinophiliaFrequency not reported: Neutropenia, leucopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Liver function test abnormalitiesFrequency not reported: Jaundice[Ref]
Pain, induration, and sterile abscess have been reported after intramuscular administration.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Injection site irritation, pain, abscess formation[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Polyarthritis[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Renal dysfunction, as shown by azotemia, oliguria, and/or proteinuria[Ref]
1. de Groot MC,  van Puijenbroek EP "Clindamycin and taste disorders." Br J Clin Pharmacol 64 (2007): 542-5
2. Meadowcroft AM, Diaz PR, Latham GS "Clostridium difficile toxin-induced colitis after use of clindmycin phosphate vaginal cream." Ann Pharmacother 32 (1998): 309-11
3. Davies J, Beck E "Recurrent colitis following antibiotic-associated pseudomembranous colitis." Postgrad Med J 57 (1981): 599-601
4. Milstone EB, McDonald AJ, Scholhamer CF Jr "Pseudomembranous colitis after topical application of clindamycin." Arch Dermatol 117 (1981): 154-5
5. Bartlett JG "Narrative review: the new epidemic of Clostridium difficile-associated enteric disease." Ann Intern Med 145 (2006): 758-64
6. Leigh DA, Simmons K, Williams S "Gastrointestinal side effects following clindamycin and lincomycin treatment: a follow up study." J Antimicrob Chemother 6 (1980): 639-45
7. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
8. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
9. Geddes AM,  Bridgwater FA,  Williams DN,  Oon J,  Grimshaw GJ "Clinical and bacteriological studies with clindamycin." Br Med J 2 (1970): 703-4
10. George WL,  Sutter VL,  Finegold SM "Antimicrobial agent-induced diarrhea--a bacterial disease." J Infect Dis 136 (1977): 822-8
11. Parry MF, Rha CK "Pseudomembranous colitis caused by topical clindamycin phosphate." Arch Dermatol 122 (1986): 583-4
12. Van Ness MM, Cattau EL Jr "Fulminant colitis complicating antibiotic-associated pseudomembranous colitis: case report and review of the clinical manifestations and treatment." Am J Gastroenterol 82 (1987): 374-7
13. Cone JB, Wetzel W "Toxic megacolon secondary to pseudomembranous colitis." Dis Colon Rectum 25 (1982): 478-82
14. "Product Information. Cleocin (clindamycin)." Pharmacia and Upjohn, Kalamazoo, MI. 
15. Wilson DH "Clindamycin in the treatment of soft tissue infections: a review of 15,019 patients." Br J Surg 67 (1980): 93-6
16. Mason SJ, O'Meara TF "Drug-induced esophagitis." J Clin Gastroenterol 3 (1981): 115-20
17. Clark BM,  Homeyer DC,  Glass KR,  D'Avignon LC "Clindamycin-Induced Sweet's Syndrome." Pharmacotherapy 27 (2007): 1343-6
18. Vidal C, Iglesias A, Saez A, Rodriguez M "Hypersensitivity to clindamycin." DICP 25 (1991): 317
19. Kapoor R,  Flynn C,  Heald PW,  Kapoor JR "Acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis induced by clindamycin." Arch Dermatol 142 (2006): 1080-1
20. Miller Quidley A,  Bookstaver PB,  Gainey AB,  Gainey MD "Fatal clindamycin-induced drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome." Pharmacotherapy  (2012):
21. Paquet P, Schaaflafontaine N, Pierard GE "Toxic epidermal necrolysis following clindamycin treatment." Br J Dermatol 132 (1995): 665-6
22. Lammintausta K,  Tokola R,  Kalimo K "Cutaneous adverse reactions to clindamycin: results of skin tests and oral exposure." Br J Dermatol 146 (2002): 643-8
23. Tian D,  Mohan RJ,  Stallings G "Drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms syndrome associated with clindamycin." Am J Med 123 (2010): e7-8
24. Bubalo JS,  Blasdel CS,  Bearden DT "Neutropenia after single-dose clindamycin for dental prophylaxis." Pharmacotherapy 23 (2003): 101-3
Not all side effects for Cleocin Pediatric may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
solution

Cracks in the skin
loss of heat from the body
red, swollen skin scaly skin


Abdominal or stomach cramps, pain, or tenderness
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating
blood in the urine or stools
blurred vision
chest pain
chills
clay-colored stools
cloudy urine
confusion
cough or hoarseness
dark urine
decrease in the amount of urine
diarrhea
diarrhea, watery and severe, which may also be bloody
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
dry mouth
fast heartbeat
fever with or without chills
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
headache
heartburn
heart stops
hives or welts, itching, or skin rash
increased thirst
itching of the vagina or genital area
joint or muscle pain
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
nausea or vomiting
no breathing
no pulse or blood pressure
pain during sexual intercourse
pain in the lower back or side
painful or difficult urination
pinpoint red spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rash with flat lesions or small raised lesions on the skin
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
redness of the skin
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
swollen glands
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
thirst
tightness in the chest
unconscious
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight loss
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin

