Generic Name: clobetasol topical
Applies to clobetasol topical: topical application cream, topical application emollient cream, topical application foam, topical application gel/jelly, topical application lotion, topical application ointment, topical application shampoo, topical application solution, topical application spray
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by clobetasol topical (the active ingredient contained in Clobevate). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking clobetasol topical:
Some of the side effects that can occur with clobetasol topical may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to clobetasol topical: compounding powder, topical cream, topical foam, topical gel, topical kit, topical lotion, topical ointment, topical shampoo, topical solution, topical spray
The most common side effect reported was skin discomfort.[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Cushing's syndrome, adrenal suppression[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Skin discomfort, acne/folliculitis, telangiectasia, skin atrophy, dry skinUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Local signs of irritation, pruritus, urticariaFrequency not reported: Stria, purpura, contact dermatitis, pigmentation changes, pustular eruptions, hypertrichosis, irritant dermatitisPostmarketing reports: Erythema, alopecia, pain of skin, skin exfoliation, chapped skin, scaling, induration/papulation,lichenification, psoriasis (aggravation) plaque elevation, excoriation, rash, hair color changes, skin tightness[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Itching[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Eye stinging/burningPostmarketing reports: Eye pain, blurred vision, eye irritation[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Edema[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Nausea[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hyperglycemia, glucosuria[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): HeadachePostmarketing reports: Dizziness[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Temovate (clobetasol)." Glaxo Wellcome, Research Triangle Park, NC. 
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
3. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
Not all side effects for Clobevate may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Burning or stinging at the application site


Burning sensation of the skin
dry skin
flushing or redness of the skin
itching, scaling, severe redness, soreness, or swelling of the skin
skin irritation
skin rash, encrusted, scaly and oozing
thinning of the skin with easy bruising, especially when used on the face or where the skin folds together (eg, between the fingers)


Burning, itching, and pain in hairy areas, or pus at the root of the hair
hair loss
redness and scaling around the mouth
thinning of the hair
thinning, weakness, or wasting away of the skin


Cough
sore throat


Body aches or pain
changes in skin coloring
congestion or cough
dryness or soreness of the throat
headache
raised, dark red, wart-like spots on the skin, especially when used on the face
skin discomfort
stuffy or runny nose
tender, swollen glands in the neck
trouble swallowing
unusual tiredness or weakness
voice changes


Acne or pimples
burning and itching of the skin with pinhead-sized red blisters
increased hair growth on the forehead, back, arms, and legs
lightening of normal skin color
lightening of treated areas of dark skin
reddish purple lines on the arms, face, legs, trunk, or groin
softening of the skin

