More frequently reported side effects include: irritability.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to clorazepate: oral capsule, oral tablet, oral tablet extended release
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by clorazepate. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking clorazepate:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking clorazepate, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with clorazepate may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to clorazepate: oral tablet
The most commonly reported side effect was dizziness.
Frequency not reported: Insomnia, suicidal ideation/behavior, irritability, depression
Frequency not reported: Dizziness, nervousness, headache, mental confusion, tremor, slurred speech, ataxia[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Abnormal liver function tests
Frequency not reported: Abnormal kidney function tests
Frequency not reported: Decreased hematocrit
Frequency not reported: Fatigue[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Transient skin rash
Frequency not reported: Decrease in systolic blood pressure
Frequency not reported: Gastrointestinal complaints, dry mouth
Frequency not reported: Genitourinary complaints
Frequency not reported: Blurred vision, diplopia
1. "Product Information. Tranxene (clorazepate)." Abbott Pharmaceutical, Abbott Park, IL. 
Not all side effects for clorazepate may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
difficult, burning, or painful urination
frequent urge to urinate
lower back or side pain
shakiness and unsteady walk
slurred speech
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination


Change in consciousness
drowsiness
loss of consciousness
relaxed and calm
sleepiness


Blurred vision
diarrhea
discouragement
dizziness
double vision
dry mouth
feeling sad or empty
headache
indigestion
irritability
loss of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
mental confusion
nausea or vomiting
nervousness
passing of gas
seeing double
skin rash
sleeplessness
stomach pain, fullness, or discomfort
trouble with concentrating
trouble with sleeping
unable to sleep
unusual tiredness or weakness

