Generic Name: artemether / lumefantrine
Applies to artemether / lumefantrine: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by artemether / lumefantrine. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking artemether / lumefantrine:
Some of the side effects that can occur with artemether / lumefantrine may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to artemether / lumefantrine: oral tablet
The most frequently reported side effects included headache, anorexia, dizziness, and asthenia during clinical studies.  Most side effects were mild, did not lead to artemether-lumefantrine discontinuation, and resolved.  The artemether-lumefantrine 6-dose regimen was discontinued in 0.2% of adult patients due to side effects.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included headache, dizziness, and vertigo (3% or more).  Tinnitus, ataxia, clonus, fine motor delay, hyperreflexia, hypoesthesia, nystagmus, and tremor have been reported in less than 3% of patients.  Ototoxicity (including decreased hearing) and paresthesia have been reported.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included anorexia, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and diarrhea (3% or more).  Constipation, dyspepsia, dysphagia, and peptic ulcer have been reported in less than 3% of patients.[Ref]
Other side effects have included asthenia, pyrexia, chills, fatigue, and malaise (3% or more).[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included palpitations (3% or more) and QT interval prolongation.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included hypersensitivity reactions.  Hypersensitivity including urticaria and angioedema has been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included splenomegaly and anemia (3% or more).  Eosinophilia, abnormal lymphocyte morphology, decreased hematocrit, increased and decreased platelet count, increased and decreased white blood cell count have been reported in less than 3% of patients.  Hemolytic anemia (including at least one case of autoimmune hemolytic anemia attributed to lumefantrine) has been reported.[Ref]
During a study, jaundice was observed in 3 patients following artemether-lumefantrine treatment; however, each patient had elevated serum bilirubin at baseline.  Resolution occurred on follow-up.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included hepatomegaly (3% or more).  Increased alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase have been reported in less than 3% of patients.  Jaundice has been reported.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus and rash (3% or more).  Urticaria has been reported in less than 3% of patients.  Serious skin reactions (bullous eruption) have been reported rarely during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Immunologic side effects have included malaria and nasopharyngitis (3% or more).  Abscess, acrodermatitis, bronchitis, ear infection, gastroenteritis, helminthic infection, hookworm infection, impetigo, influenza, lower respiratory tract infection, oral herpes, pneumonia, respiratory tract infection, subcutaneous abscess, upper respiratory tract infection, and urinary tract infection have been reported in less than 3% of patients.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects have included hypokalemia (less than 3%).[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgia and myalgia (3% or more).  Gait disturbance and back pain have been reported in less than 3% of patients.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included cough (3% or more).  Asthma and pharyngolaryngeal pain have been reported in less than 3% of patients.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included hematuria and proteinuria (less than 3%).[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects have included sleep disorder and insomnia (3% or more).  Agitation and mood swings have been reported in less than 3% of patients.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Coartem (artemether-lumefantrine)." Novartis Pharmaceuticals, East Hanover, NJ. 
2. Bakshi R,  Hermeling-Fritz I,  Gathmann I,  Alteri E "An integrated assessment of the clinical safety of artemether-lumefantrine: a new oral fixed-dose combination antimalarial drug." Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg 94 (2000): 419-24
3. "Artemether-lumefantrine (Coartem) for treatment of malaria." Med Lett Drugs Ther 51 (2009): 75-6
4. Lefevre G,  Looareesuwan S,  Treeprasertsuk S, et al. "A clinical and pharmacokinetic trial of six doses of artemether-lumefantrine for  multidrug-resistant Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Thailand." Am J Trop Med Hyg 64(5-6) (2001): 247-56
5. Toovey S "Effects of weight, age, and time on artemether-lumefantrine associated ototoxicity and evidence of irreversibility." Travel Med Infect Dis 4 (2006): 71-6
6. McCall MB,  Beynon AJ,  Mylanus EA,  van der Ven AJ,  Sauerwein RW "No hearing loss associated with the use of artemether-lumefantrine to treat experimental human malaria." Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg 100 (2006): 1098-104
7. Stover KR,  King ST,  Robinson J "Artemether-lumefantrine: an option for malaria." Ann Pharmacother 46 (2012): 567-77
8. Toovey S "A case-control auditory evaluation of patients treated with artemether-lumefantrine." Am J Trop Med Hyg 74 (2006): 939-40; author reply 940
9. Gurkov R,  Eshetu T,  Miranda IB, et al. "Ototoxicity of artemether / lumefantrine in the treatment of falciparum malaria: a randomized trial." Malar J 7 (2008): 179
10. McGready R,  Tan SO,  Ashley EA, et al. "A randomised controlled trial of artemether-lumefantrine versus artesunate for uncomplicated plasmodium falciparum treatment in pregnancy." PLoS Med 5 (2008): e253
11. Merat S,  Lambert E,  Vincenti-Rouquette I,  Gidenne S,  Rousseau JM,  Brinquin L "Case report: combination artemether-lumefantrine and haemolytic anaemia following a malarial attack." Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg 97 (2003): 433-4
Not all side effects for Coartem may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Abdominal or stomach pain
chills
cough
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
fever
headache
muscle aches
pale skin
right upper abdominal or stomach pain and fullness
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness


Accumulation of pus
acid or sour stomach
belching
black, tarry stools
bladder pain
blood in the urine
bloody or cloudy urine
body aches or pain
change in hearing
chest pain
cloudy urine
convulsions
cough producing mucus
decreased urine
diarrhea
difficult, burning, or painful urination
difficulty with breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
dry mouth
ear congestion
ear drainage
earache or pain in the ear
frequent urge to urinate
general feeling of discomfort or illness
heartburn
increased thirst
indigestion
joint pain
loss of appetite
loss of voice
lower back or side pain
mood changes
muscle pain or cramps
nasal congestion
nausea or vomiting
noisy breathing
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
red rash with watery, yellow-colored, or pus filled blisters
shivering
shortness of breath
sneezing
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
sweating
swollen glands
swollen, red, tender area of infection
thick yellow to honey-colored crusts
tightness in the chest
troubled with sleeping


Large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs


Difficulty with moving
lack or loss of strength
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pain or stiffness
sleeplessness
unable to sleep
weight loss


Back pain
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
burning, dry, or itching eyes
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
discharge or excessive tearing
dizziness or lightheadedness
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
hearing loss
hives or welts
redness of the skin
redness, pain, swelling of the eye, eyelid, or inner lining of the eyelid
sensation of spinning
shakiness and unsteady walk
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
uncontrolled eye movements
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination

