Applies to colistimethate: injection powder for solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by colistimethate. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking colistimethate, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking colistimethate, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with colistimethate may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to colistimethate: compounding powder, injectable powder for injection
Nervous system side effects have included tingling of the tongue and extremities, slurred speech, dizziness, vertigo, paresthesia, confusion, psychosis, and seizures.  Neuromuscular blockade may occur with overdoses.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included respiratory distress and apnea.  Inhalation treatment has been associated with cough and bronchospasm.  At least one case of fatal acute respiratory distress syndrome with nebulized colistimethate has been reported.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included generalized itching, urticaria, and rash.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included gastrointestinal upset, nausea, and vomiting.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included rash, drug fever, and eosinophilia.[Ref]
Local side effects have included pain at the injection site.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included muscular weakness.[Ref]
Other side effects have included fever.[Ref]
Renal side effects have included increases in blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine, nephrotoxicity, decreased urine output, acute tubular necrosis, and hematuria.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Coly-Mycin M Parenteral (colistimethate)." Parke-Davis, Morris Plains, NJ. 
2. Hartzell JD,  Neff R,  Ake J, et al. "Nephrotoxicity Associated with Intravenous Colistin (Colistimethate Sodium) Treatment at a Tertiary Care Medical Center." Clin Infect Dis 48 (2009): 1724-8
3. McCoy KS "Compounded colistimethate as possible cause of fatal acute respiratory distress syndrome." N Engl J Med 357 (2007): 2310-1
4. Lindesmith LA, Baines RD Jr, Bigelow DB, Petty TL "Reversible respiratory paralysis associated with polymyxin therapy." Ann Intern Med 68 (1968): 318-27
Not all side effects for colistimethate may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Blood in the urine
bluish lips or skin
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
change in frequency of urination or amount of urine
decrease in amount of urine
difficulty with breathing
drowsiness
fever
increased thirst
loss of appetite
nausea or vomiting
shortness of breath
slurred speech
swelling of the feet or lower legs
tightness in the chest
tingling of the arms, legs, and tongue
troubled breathing
weakness
wheezing


Dizziness
mood or mental changes
shakiness and unsteady walk
uncontrolled eye movements
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination
unusual drowsiness, dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness


Diarrhea
dizziness or lightheadedness
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
hives or welts
itching
redness of the skin
sensation of spinning
stomach cramps or pain

