If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking ibuprofen / oxycodone, get emergency help immediately:
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea (8.8% to 25.4%), vomiting (4.5% to 5.3%), constipation (4.5%), dyspepsia (2.1%), diarrhea (2.1%), flatulence (1%).  Dry mouth, eructation, ileus, and taste perversion have occurred rarely.  More serious side effects associated with ibuprofen are uncommon but include occult blood loss, ulcer, gastrointestinal hemorrhage with or without perforation, pancreatitis, small bowel enteropathies, colonic and pyloric channel strictures, and ibuprofen-associated colitis.  Bloody vomiting has been associated with ibuprofen overdose.
The incidence of gastrointestinal blood loss associated with ibuprofen is dose-related, occurring in up to 17% of patients receiving 1,600 mg per day and in 23% of patients receiving 2,400 mg per day.Patients with a history of serious gastrointestinal events or alcohol abuse are at increased risk for severe gastrointestinal side effects.  Ibuprofen should be used with caution in these patients.
Nervous system side effects have included somnolence (7.3% to 17.4%) and dizziness (5.1% to 19.2%).  Abnormal thinking, anxiety, hyperkinesia, and hypertonia have been reported rarely.Nervous system side effects associated with oxycodone have included drowsiness (23% to 24%), sedation, headache (7%), dry mouth (7%), and lightheadedness.Aseptic meningitis associated with ibuprofen has been described in several case reports.  Also, paresthesias and pseudotumor cerebri have been associated with ibuprofen, although causality is unknown.
Ibuprofen therapy in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and related connective tissue disorders has been associated with rare reports of aseptic meningitis.  However, there have been reports in patients without any underlying chronic condition.
Elevations in liver function tests, SGPT (ALT) or SGOT (AST), three times normal values occur in less than 1% of patients in controlled clinical trials with NSAIDs.Cases of jaundice and fatal hepatitis have been associated with ibuprofen and other NSAIDs.A patient on ibuprofen-oxycodone therapy with symptoms and/or signs suggesting liver dysfunction, or in whom an abnormal liver function test has been reported, should be evaluated for evidence of the development of more severe hepatic dysfunction.  Discontinuation of ibuprofen-oxycodone therapy should occur if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, if clinical signs consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (for example, eosinophilia, rash, etc).
Hepatic side effects have included elevations in liver function tests in up to 15% of patients.  Rarely, jaundice, cholestasis, hepatitis, and hepatic failure have been reported.  Ibuprofen has also been implicated in the so-called acute vanishing bile duct syndrome in children and in cases of acute hepatitis in patients with established stable, chronic hepatitis C infection.
Respiratory side effects have included respiratory depression.Respiratory side effects associated with oxycodone have included respiratory depression, apnea, respiratory arrest, and rarely circulatory collapse.  Respiratory side effects associated with ibuprofen have included noncardiogenic pulmonary edema.
Opioids, like oxycodone, may cause dose-related respiratory depression through direct action on the brain stem respiratory centers.  The elderly or debilitated patients may be more susceptible to respiratory depression especially when administered in large doses or in conjunction with other agents that depress respiration.
Renal side effects associated with ibuprofen have included mild renal insufficiency, nephrotic syndrome with and without renal failure, acute renal failure due to tubulointerstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis and acute tubular necrosis.
ibuprofen may impair the ability of the kidney to cope with low renal blood flow states due to inhibition of prostaglandin-dependent afferent arteriolar vasodilation.  Renal function may be further compromised in patients with heart failure, hypovolemia, cirrhosis, nephrotic syndrome, or hypoalbuminemia.  Additional risk factors for ibuprofen-induced renal insufficiency are advanced age and concomitant use of diuretics.A case-controlled study suggested that patients who consumed 5000 or more pills containing NSAIDs during their lifetime may be at increased risk of end-stage renal disease.
Metabolic side effects have rarely included hypokalemia.Metabolic side effects associated with ibuprofen have included hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH).  In addition, gynecomastia, hypoglycemia, and acidosis have been associated with ibuprofen therapy, although causality is unknown.  Hyperkalemia has been associated with ibuprofen overdose.
A rare case of painful, persistent peripheral cyanosis and swelling of the fingers and toes which progressed to desquamation and digital pitting infarctions has been associated with ibuprofen.Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may elevate blood pressure and increase the risk for initiation of antihypertensive therapy.  Furthermore, NSAIDs may antagonize the blood pressure lowering effect of antihypertensive medications in patients already being treated with antihypertensive drugs.
Cardiovascular side effects have included vasodilation (3%).  Hypotension, syncope, tachycardia, and thrombophlebitis have occurred rarely.  Cardiovascular side effects associated with ibuprofen have included peripheral edema (1% to 3%), and elevated blood pressure (<1%).
Hypersensitivity side effects associated with ibuprofen have included erythematous or urticarial rashes, pruritus, angioedema, bronchospasm, and anaphylactoid reactions.  Cases of systemic reactions, including interstitial nephritis and diffuse pulmonary infiltrates have been reported rarely with ibuprofen.
Hematologic side effects associated with ibuprofen have included anemia, platelet dysfunction, neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, and decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit.
Anemia associated with NSAIDs, including ibuprofen, may be the result of fluid retention, GI loss, or an incompletely described effect on erythropoiesis.Reductions in serum hemoglobin concentrations are uncommon, and are usually associated with occult gastrointestinal blood loss.  Ibuprofen induces an antiplatelet effect for at least 6 hours while preserving normal antiplatelet mechanisms.
Dermatologic side effects have rarely included ecchymosis and rash.  Pruritus has been reported rarely with oxycodone.Dermatologic side effects associated with ibuprofen have rarely included maculopapular rash, pruritus, vesiculobullous eruptions, erythema multiforme, vasculitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and alopecia.  Toxic epidermal necrolysis as well as photosensitivity reactions have been associated with ibuprofen, although causality is unknown.
Diphenhydramine (25 to 50 mg) has been shown to be helpful for opioid-associated pruritus.
Musculoskeletal side effects have rarely included arthritis.
Genitourinary side effects have rarely included urinary frequency.
Other side effects have included asthenia (3.3%), sweat (1.6%), abdominal pain, chest pain, and enlarged abdomen.  Back pain, chills, infection have occurred rarely.
Other side effects associated with oxycodone have included withdrawal symptoms.  These effects can occur after either abrupt cessation or fast tapering of narcotic analgesics, and include agitation, restlessness, anxiety, insomnia, tremor, abdominal cramps, blurred vision, vomiting, piloerection, and sweating.  Psychosis has been associated with oxycodone withdrawal.
Ibuprofen-oxycodone should be used with caution in patients with a history of cardiac decompensation, hypertension, or heart failure due to the potential for edema and fluid retention.
Other side effects associated with ibuprofen therapy have included fluid retention and edema, tinnitus (1% to 3%), and vertigo.
Psychiatric side effects associated with ibuprofen have included pseudodementia and psychotic exacerbation.Psychiatric side effects associated with oxycodone have included paranoia, psychosis, and hallucinations.  Psychosis has been reported with oxycodone withdrawal.
Ocular side effects have rarely included amblyopia.Ocular side effects associated with ibuprofen have included blurred vision (<1%), scotomata, and diplopia.  In addition, at least one case of corneal verticillata has been associated with ibuprofen.
Feeling faint, dizzy, or lightheaded
feeling of warmth or heat
flushing or redness of the skin, especially on the face and neck
headache
sweating
Abdominal or stomach pain
blurred vision
changes in skin color
chest pain
confusion
convulsions
decrease in frequency of urination
decreased urine
difficulty with breathing
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying position
dry mouth
excessive muscle tone
fainting
fast heartbeat
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
increased need to urinate
increased thirst
loss of appetite
mood changes
muscle pain or cramps
muscle stiffness
muscle tension or tightness
nausea or vomiting
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
pain, tenderness, or swelling of the foot or leg
painful urination
pale skin
passing urine more often
severe constipation
severe vomiting
shortness of breath
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
weakness
Change in consciousness
chest pain or discomfort
cold and clammy skin
constricted pupils
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
decreased awareness or responsiveness
difficult or troubled breathing
difficulty with sleeping
disorientation
drowsiness to profound coma
fainting
hallucination
hearing loss
irregular, fast or slow, or shallow breathing
lethargy
loss of bladder control
loss of consciousness
muscle spasm or jerking of all extremities
pale or blue lips, fingernails, or skin
severe sleepiness
skeletal muscle flaccidity
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sudden fainting
sudden loss of consciousness
Acid or sour stomach
belching
bloated full feeling
diarrhea
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
fever
heartburn
indigestion
lack or loss of strength
passing gas
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
Back pain
body aches or pain
bruising, large, flat, blue or purplish patches in the skin
changes in vision
chills
congestion
cough or hoarseness
delusions
dementia
difficult urination
difficulty with moving
dryness or soreness of the throat
enlarged abdomen or stomach
false or unusual sense of well-being
fear
hoarseness
impaired vision
increase in body movements
lower back or side pain
nervousness
pain, swelling, or redness in the joints
rash
runny nose
sleeplessness
swelling
taste perversion
tender, swollen glands in the neck
trouble with sleeping
trouble with swallowing
unable to sleep
voice changes