Generic Name: acetaminophen / guaifenesin
Applies to acetaminophen / guaifenesin: powder packets
 When used in small doses, no COMMON side effects have been reported with this product. Seek medical attention right away if any of these SEVERE side effects occur while taking acetaminophen / guaifenesin:
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; itching; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, or tongue); dark urine or pale stools; unusual fatigue; yellowing of the skin or eyes.


Applies to acetaminophen / guaifenesin: oral liquid, oral powder for reconstitution, oral tablet
Hepatic side effects of acetaminophen have included severe and sometimes fatal dose dependent hepatitis in alcoholic patients.  Hepatotoxicity has been increased during fasting.  Several cases of hepatotoxicity from chronic acetaminophen therapy at therapeutic doses have also been reported despite a lack of risk factors for toxicity.[Ref]
Alcoholic patients may develop hepatotoxicity after even modest doses of acetaminophen.  In healthy patients, approximately 15 grams of acetaminophen is necessary to deplete liver glutathione stores by 70% in a 70 kg person.  However, hepatotoxicity has been reported following smaller doses.  Glutathione concentrations may be repleted by the antidote N-acetylcysteine.  One case report has suggested that hypothermia may also be beneficial in decreasing liver damage during overdose.In a recent retrospective study of 306 patients admitted for acetaminophen overdose, 6.9% had severe liver injury but all recovered.  None of the 306 patients died.A 19 year old female developed hepatotoxicity, reactive plasmacytosis and agranulocytosis followed by a leukemoid reaction after acute acetaminophen toxicity.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects of acetaminophen have included rare reports of erythematous skin rashes.  Acetaminophen associated bullous erythema and purpura fulminans have also been reported.  Acetaminophen has been associated with a risk of rare but potentially fatal serious skin reactions known as Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP).Dermatologic side effects of guaifenesin have included rare reports of rash.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects of acetaminophen have included rare cases of acute pancreatitis.Gastrointestinal side effects of guaifenesin have included stomach upset and vomiting with higher than recommended doses.  Doses recommended for expectoration have rarely been associated with gastrointestinal upset.[Ref]
One study has suggested that acetaminophen may precipitate acute biliary pain and cholestasis.  The mechanism of this effect may be related to inhibition of prostaglandin and alterations in the regulation of the sphincter of Oddi.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects of guaifenesin have occasionally included dizziness and headache.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects of acetaminophen have included rare cases of thrombocytopenia.  Methemoglobinemia with resulting cyanosis has also been observed in the setting of acute overdose.[Ref]
Acute tubular necrosis usually occurs in conjunction with liver failure, but has been observed as an isolated finding in rare cases.  A possible increase in the risk of renal cell carcinoma has been associated with chronic acetaminophen use as well.A recent case control study of patients with end-stage renal disease suggested that long term consumption of acetaminophen may significantly increase the risk of end-stage renal disease particularly in patients taking more than two pills per day.[Ref]
Renal side effects of acetaminophen have included rare cases of acute tubular necrosis and interstitial nephritis.  Adverse renal effects are most often observed after overdose, after chronic abuse (often with multiple analgesics), or in association with acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects of acetaminophen have included rare reports of anaphylaxis and fixed drug eruptions.[Ref]
Two cases hypotension have been reported following the administration of acetaminophen.  Both patients experienced significant decreases in blood pressure.  One of the two patients required pressor agents to maintain adequate mean arterial pressures.  Neither episode was associated with symptoms of anaphylaxis.  Neither patient was rechallenged after resolution of the initial episode.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects of acetaminophen have included two cases of hypotension.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects of acetaminophen have included a case of eosinophilic pneumonia.[Ref]
1. Gursoy M, Haznedaroglu IC, Celik I, Sayinalp N, Ozcebe OI, Dundar SV "Agranulocytosis, plasmacytosis, and thrombocytosis followed by a leukemoid reaction due to acute acetaminophen toxicity." Ann Pharmacother 30 (1996): 762-5
2. Zimmerman HJ, Maddrey WC "Acetaminophen (paracetamol) hepatotoxicity with regular intake of alcohol: analysis of instances of therapeutic misadventure." Hepatology 22 (1995): 767-73
3. "Product Information. Tylenol Chest Congestion (acetaminophen-guaifenesin)." Johnson and Johnson/Merck Consumer, Fort Washington, PA. 
4. Filipe PL, Freitas JP, Decastro JC, Silva R "Drug eruption induced by acetaminophen in infectious mononucleosis." Int J Dermatol 34 (1995): 220-1
5. "Product Information. Robitussin (guaifenesin)." Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories, Philadelphia, PA. 
6. Lee WM "Medical progress: drug-induced hepatotoxicity." N Engl J Med 333 (1995): 1118-27
7. Shoenfeld Y, Shaklai M, Livni E, Pinkhas J "Thrombocytopenia from acetaminophen." N Engl J Med 303 (1980): 47
8. Perneger TV, Whelton PK, Klag MJ "Risk of kidney failure associated with the use of acetaminophen, aspirin, and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs." N Engl J Med 331 (1994): 1675-79
9. Kawada A, Hiruma M, Noguchi H, Ishibashi A "Fixed drug eruption induced by acetaminophen in a 12-year-old girl." Int J Dermatol 35 (1996): 148-9
10. Brown G "Acetaminophen-induced hypotension." Heart Lung 25 (1996): 137-40
11. Kondo K, Inoue Y, Hamada H, Yokoyama A, Kohno N, Hiwada K "Acetaminophen-induced eosinophilic pneumonia." Chest 104 (1993): 291-2
Not all side effects for Comtrex Deep Chest Cold may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
