Generic Name: podofilox topical
Applies to podofilox topical: topical gel/jelly, topical solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by podofilox topical (the active ingredient contained in Condylox). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking podofilox topical, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some of the side effects that can occur with podofilox topical may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to podofilox topical: topical gel, topical solution
Gastrointestinal side effects have included vomiting.[Ref]
Local side effects have included burning, pain, inflammation, erosion, itching, and bleeding.  Reports of burning and pain were greater and more severe in women than in men.  Tenderness, chafing, malodor, scarring, vesicle formation, crusting edema, dryness, peeling, and ulceration have also been reported.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included pain with intercourse, foreskin irretraction, and hematuria.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included headache, insomnia, and dizziness.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Podofilox Topical (podofilox topical)." Paddock Laboratories Inc, Minneapolis, MN. 
2. "Product Information. Condylox (podofilox topical)." Oclassen Dermatologics, Morristown, NJ. 
Not all side effects for Condylox may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bad odor (solution only)
bleeding of treated skin
blistering, crusting, or scabbing of treated skin
bloody urine (solution only)
burning feeling of treated skin
dizziness (solution only)
headache (gel only)
itching of treated skin
pain during sexual intercourse (solution only)
pain of treated skin
problems with foreskin of penis (solution only) 
redness or swelling of treated skin
scarring of treated skin (solution only)
 skin ulcers of treated skin
vomiting (solution only) 


 Nausea
vomiting
diarrhea 
chills
fever
sore throat
unusual bleeding or bruising 
oral ulcers


Dryness of treated skin
peeling of treated skin
soreness or tenderness of treated skin 
stinging or tingling of treated skin
trouble in sleeping (solution only)


Changes in color of treated skin (gel only)
 skin rash (gel only)

