Generic Name: flurandrenolide topical
Applies to flurandrenolide topical: topical application cream, topical application lotion, topical application ointment, topical application tape
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by flurandrenolide topical (the active ingredient contained in Cordran Tape). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking flurandrenolide topical:
Some of the side effects that can occur with flurandrenolide topical may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to flurandrenolide topical: topical cream, topical lotion, topical ointment, topical tape
The most commonly reported side effects were burning, itching, irritation, and dryness.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, miliariaPostmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity, contact dermatitis, skin discoloration[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hyperglycemia, glucosuria[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Intracranial hypertension (including bulging fontanelles, headaches, bilateral papilledema), paraesthesia[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Burning, itching, irritation, dryness[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Cordran (flurandrenolide topical)." Oclassen Pharmaceuticals Inc, Corona, CA. 
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
Not all side effects for Cordran Tape may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Blistering, burning, crusting, dryness, or flaking of the skin
irritation
itching, scaling, severe redness, soreness, or swelling of the skin
redness and scaling around the mouth
thinning of the skin with easy bruising, especially when used on the face or where the skin folds together (e.g. between the fingers)


Acne or pimples
burning and itching of the skin with pinhead-sized red blisters
burning, itching, and pain in hairy areas, or pus at the root of the hair
increased hair growth on the forehead, back, arms, and legs
lightening of normal skin color
lightening of the treated areas of dark skin
reddish purple lines on the arms, face, legs, trunk, or groin
softening of the skin

