Generic Name: factor XIII
Applies to factor XIII: intravenous powder for solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by factor XIII (the active ingredient contained in Corifact). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking factor XIII, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with factor XIII may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to factor XIII: intravenous powder for injection
Hypersensitivity side effects have included allergy, rash, pruritus, and erythema, chills/rise in temperature, arthralgia, headache, elevated thrombin antithrombin levels, and an increase in hepatic enzymes.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included factor XIII (the active ingredient contained in Corifact) inhibitor formation.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included thrombosis and embolism.[Ref]
General side effects have included flu-like syndrome and pyrexia.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included abdominal pain, diarrhea and vomiting.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included contusion, joint injury, limb injury, road traffic accident, and arthralgia.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included upper respiratory tract infection and epistaxis.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included headache and head injury.[Ref]
Immunologic side effects have included allergic/anaphylactic reaction (including cutaneous reactions, alteration in blood pressure, nausea, dyspnea, fever, and chills).[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Corifact (factor XIII)." CSL Behring, King of Prussia, PA. 
Not all side effects for Corifact may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bloody nose
bruise
collection of blood under the skin
deep, dark purple bruise
fever
itching, pain, redness, or swelling


Chest pain
cough
dizziness or fainting
hives
pain in the chest, groin, or legs, especially the calves
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red, scaly, swollen, or peeling areas of the skin
severe, sudden headache
shortness of breath
tenderness, pain, swelling, warmth, skin discoloration, and prominent superficial veins over the affected area
unusual tiredness or weakness


Difficulty with moving
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
joint pain
muscle aches and pains

