Generic Name: antivenin (crotalidae) polyvalent
Applies to antivenin (crotalidae) polyvalent: intravenous powder for solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by antivenin (crotalidae) polyvalent (the active ingredient contained in CroFab). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking antivenin (crotalidae) polyvalent, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with antivenin (crotalidae) polyvalent may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to antivenin (crotalidae) polyvalent: injectable solution, intravenous powder for injection
The most common adverse events were urticaria and rash.
Very common (10% or more): Urticaria (16%), rash (11%)Common (1% to 10%): Pruritus, cellulitis, subcutaneous nodule, ecchymosisPostmarketing reports: Erythema, hyperhidrosis, angioedema
Allergic reaction consisted of urticaria, dyspnea, and wheezing.  Serum sickness included urticaria, cough, rash, pruritus, and urticaria.  Acute allergic reactions manifested as anxiety, bronchospasm, chills, edema, fever, hypotension, pruritus, rash, urticaria, voice alteration, and/or wheezing.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Allergic reaction, serum sicknessPostmarketing reports: Acute allergic reactions including anaphylaxis or anaphylactoid reactions, delayed allergic reaction.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Coagulation disorder Postmarketing reports: Delayed or recurrent coagulopathy or thrombocytopenia, thrombocytopenia refractory to treatment, bleeding
Common (1% to 10%): HypotensionPostmarketing reports: Tachycardia
Common (1% to 10%): General paresthesia, nervousnessPostmarketing reports: Tremor, dizziness, headache[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Asthma, cough, increased sputumPostmarketing reports: Tachypnea, bronchospasm, wheezing, tracheal edema, dyspnea
Common (1% to 10%): Back pain, myalgiaPostmarketing reports: Musculoskeletal chest pain, chills
Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, anorexia, circumoral paresthesiaPostmarketing reports: Tongue swelling, lip swelling
Common (1% to 10%): Chest pain, wound infection, chillsPostmarketing reports: Failure to achieve initial control, recurrent swelling refractory to treatment, prolonged hospitalization, treatment failure resulting in death, chest discomfort, swelling
Common (1% to 10%): Nervousness
Postmarketing reports: Worsening eye sight
1. "Product Information. Crofab (antivenin (crotalidae) polyvalent)" Savage Laboratories, Melville, NY. 
Not all side effects for CroFab may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
difficulty with moving
flushing or redness of the skin
itching skin or rash
muscle pain or stiffness
nausea
pain in the joints
tingling of the hands or feet
unusual weight gain or loss
unusually warm skin
vomiting


Black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
chills
confusion
decreased urination
dizziness
dry mouth
fainting
fever
increase in heart rate
lightheadedness
pinpoint red spots on the skin
rapid breathing
sunken eyes
thirst
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
wrinkled skin


Headache
pain in the arms or legs


Fear or nervousness
trouble sleeping

