Generic Name: cromolyn ophthalmic
Applies to cromolyn ophthalmic: ophthalmic solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by cromolyn ophthalmic (the active ingredient contained in Crolom). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking cromolyn ophthalmic, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some of the side effects that can occur with cromolyn ophthalmic may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to cromolyn ophthalmic: ophthalmic solution
The most commonly reported side effect includes eye irritation such as burning/stinging.[Ref]
Uncommon: Conjunctival infection; watery eyes, itchy eyes, dryness around the eye, puffy eyes, eye irritation, styes, swelling of the eyelids, conjunctiva swelling[Ref]
Swelling of the eyelids or the conjunctiva has been reported and is thought to be due to a hypersensitivity to the preservative, benzalkonium chloride.[Ref]
Rare: Immediate hypersensitivity reactions including edema, rash, dyspnea[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Cromolyn Sodium Ophthalmic (cromolyn ophthalmic (sodium cromoglycate ophthalmic))." Akorn Inc, Buffalo Grove, IL. 
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
3. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
Not all side effects for Crolom may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Rash or redness around the eyes
swelling of the membrane covering the white part of the eye, redness of the white part of the eye, styes, or other eye irritation not present before therapy


Burning or stinging of eye (mild and temporary)


Dryness or puffiness around the eye
 watering or itching of eye (increased)

