Generic Name: daptomycin
Applies to daptomycin: intravenous powder for solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by daptomycin (the active ingredient contained in Cubicin). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking daptomycin, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with daptomycin may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to daptomycin: intravenous powder for injection
In phase 3 complicated skin and skin structure infection trials, this drug was discontinued in 2.8% of patients due to a side effect, while comparator was discontinued in 3% of patients.  In the Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia/endocarditis trial, this drug was discontinued in 16.7% of patients due to a side effect, while comparator was discontinued in 18.1% of patients.In phase 3 community-acquired pneumonia trials, the death rate and rates of serious cardiorespiratory side effects were higher with this drug than comparator due to lack of therapeutic efficacy.[Ref]
In clinical studies, 0.2% of patients had symptoms of muscle pain or weakness associated with CPK elevations to greater than 4 x ULN.  After discontinuation of this drug, CPK returned to normal within 7 to 10 days and symptoms resolved within 3 days.A 45-year-old female with refractory acute myeloid leukemia was admitted to the blood and marrow transplant unit for a second attempt to induce remission with myeloablative chemotherapy of high-dose cytarabine.  Two months prior, the patient's first course of induction therapy was complicated by neutropenic fever and vancomycin- resistant Enterococcus faecium (VRE) bacteremia that was treated with linezolid for 14 days.  The patient was also receiving aztreonam, levofloxacin, acyclovir, amphotericin B lipid complex, and azithromycin.  Once her clinical status stabilized, she was transferred from the intensive care unit (ICU) back to the blood and marrow transplant unit.  After receiving 8 of 12 scheduled doses of cytarabine, the patient required readmission to the medical ICU due to a decrease in mental status, supraventricular tachycardia, and hypotension.  Cultures of blood and urine samples at the time of her transfer showed VRE with intermediate resistance to linezolid.  The patient, who was neutropenic at this time, was started on IV daptomycin (the active ingredient contained in Cubicin) 550 mg (6 mg/kg) every 24 hours.  The patient's baseline CPK was 108 units/L and serum creatinine level was 0.8 mg/dL.  Over the following 7 days, the patient's CPK level gradually increased, and on day 10 of daptomycin therapy, her CPK level was 996 units/L, BUN was 73 mg/dL, and serum creatinine level was 1.9 mg/dL.  To evaluate for rhabdomyolysis, urine myoglobin was measured and reported at 30,890 ng/mL.  Rhabdomyolysis was diagnosed based on increased CPK and urine myoglobin level in a patient with acute renal failure.  Daptomycin was discontinued and the patient was started on treatment for rhabdomyolysis.  Despite aggressive hydration and diuresis, CPK and urine myoglobin levels continued to increase up to 5350 units/L and 47,166 ng/mL, respectively.  Over 2 weeks, the patient's CPK and urine myoglobin levels slowly resolved.  The final CPK and urine myoglobin levels measured were 3395 units/L and 451 ng/mL, respectively.In another case, a 53-year-old African-American female with a history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and peripheral vascular disease was admitted to the hospital and an MRI revealed L5-S1 discitis and osteomyelitis.  After an 8-week course of empirical antibiotic therapy with vancomycin and levofloxacin, an open biopsy was performed.  Specimens from the biopsy cultured positive for Torulopsis glabrata, VRE, and methicillin-resistant S aureus (MRSA) and the patient was started on daptomycin 360 mg (6 mg/kg) IV as a single daily dose and voriconazole 250 mg twice daily.  Ten days after starting this drug, the patient developed generalized muscular weakness that progressed to the point she was unable to get out of bed.  The patient then developed nonoliguric acute renal failure with a serum creatinine of 27 mg/mL up from baseline of 9 mg/mL.  A CPK level drawn was elevated to 21,243 units/L and was associated with elevated levels: AST 375 units/L, ALT 219 units/L, and LDH 666 units/L.  Urinalysis was positive for hemoglobin, myoglobin, and RBCs which conferred a diagnosis of acute renal failure secondary to drug-induced rhabdomyolysis.  After this drug was discontinued and IV fluid was administered to alkalinize the urine, renal function, CPK, and liver function tests returned to baseline as well as dissipation of muscular weakness.  Myoglobin, hemoglobin, and RBCs disappeared from urine as well.In another similar case, a 52-year-old male with a history hepatitis C, IV drug abuse, idiopathic thrombocytopenia, and hyperlipidemia was admitted to the hospital and an MRI revealed findings compatible with L3-L4 discitis and osteomyelitis.  He was started on vancomycin but it was discontinued after a rash developed.  Daptomycin was started at 500 mg (6.5 mg/kg) IV as a single daily dose.  The patient was also on simvastatin; however, it was discontinued prior to starting this drug.  After 9 days of therapy, the patient developed generalized muscle weakness progressing to the point where he was unable to get out of bed.  The patient's CPK rose to 20,771 units/L from a baseline of 102 units/L.  AST 239 units/L and ALT 40 units/L were elevated from baseline and alkaline phosphatase was elevated to 118 units/L.  This drug was discontinued and the patient was admitted to the ICU for close monitoring and hydration.  The patient slowly improved and recovered all muscle strength and within 2 weeks his enzymes returned to baseline.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Elevated creatine phosphokinase (CPK), limb painUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Myalgia, muscle cramps, myositis, increased myoglobin, muscle weakness, muscle pain, arthralgia, muscle pain/weakness symptoms associated with CPK elevations to greater than 4 times the upper limit of normal (4 x ULN)Frequency not reported: Pain in extremity, back pain, osteomyelitis, muscle twitching, myopathy (with minor increases in CPK), rhabdomyolysis (with secondary acute renal failure), severe myopathy (with possible hepatotoxicity)Postmarketing reports: Rhabdomyolysis (some cases involved coadministration with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors)[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Insomnia, anxietyUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Mental status changeFrequency not reported: Hallucination, confusion[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Pyrexia, asthenia, serious gram-negative infections (including bloodstream infections, cholangitis, alcoholic pancreatitis, sternal osteomyelitis/mediastinitis, bowel infarction, recurrent Crohn's disease, recurrent line sepsis, recurrent urosepsis), chest pain, edema, sepsis, bacteremia, fungal infections, candidal infectionUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Fatigue, weakness, rigors, flushing, taste disturbance, fungemia, pain, chillsFrequency not reported: Discomfort, jitteriness, pneumonia, chapped lips, peripheral edemaPostmarketing reports: Infusion reactions (including tachycardia, wheezing, pyrexia, rigors, systemic flushing, vertigo, syncope, metallic taste)[Ref]
Serious gram-negative infections (including bloodstream infections) were reported in 10/120 daptomycin-treated patients in the S aureus bacteremia/endocarditis trial compared to 0/115 in comparator-treated patients.  Gram-negative infections included cholangitis, alcoholic pancreatitis, sternal osteomyelitis/mediastinitis, bowel infarction, recurrent Crohn's disease, recurrent line sepsis, and recurrent urosepsis.One patient developed S aureus endocarditis with a 2 cm mitral vegetation, bowel infarction, and polymicrobial bacteremia that ultimately lead to death following mitral valve repair complicated by sternal osteomyelitis.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Pharyngolaryngeal pain, dyspneaFrequency not reported: Pleural effusions, sore throat, adenoviral upper respiratory infection, upper respiratory tract infection (not otherwise specified), dyspnea with hypoxic respiratory insufficiency, diffuse pulmonary infiltratesPostmarketing reports: Cough, eosinophilic pneumonia[Ref]
Symptoms of eosinophilic pneumonia have included fever, dyspnea with hypoxic respiratory insufficiency, diffuse pulmonary infiltrates, cough, shortness of breath, and difficulty breathing.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Abdominal pain, diarrhea, gastrointestinal and abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, constipation, flatulence, bloating and distensionUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Abdominal distention, stomatitis, dyspepsia, glossitisFrequency not reported: Dry mouth, epigastric discomfort, gingival pain, oral candidiasis, oral hypoesthesia, loose stools, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, abnormal bowel sounds, aphthous stomatitisPostmarketing reports: Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Pruritus, increased sweating, rashUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Eczema, urticariaFrequency not reported: Heat rash, generalized pruritus, vesicular rash, erythema, cellulitis, papular rashPostmarketing reports: Serious skin reactions (including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, vesiculobullous rash [with or without mucous membrane involvement])[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Hypertension, hypotensionUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Supraventricular arrhythmia, supraventricular tachycardia, extrasystoleFrequency not reported: Atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, cardiac arrest, cardiac failure, cardiac disorders (unspecified)[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Headache, dizzinessUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Vertigo, paresthesia, taste disorder, tremorFrequency not reported: Peripheral nervous system events (such as paresthesias, dysesthesias, peripheral neuropathies), tinnitus, dyskinesiaPostmarketing reports: Peripheral neuropathy[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Abnormal liver function tests (increased ALT, increased AST, increased alkaline phosphatase)Rare (less than 0.1%): JaundiceFrequency not reported: Hepatobiliary disorder[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infectionsUncommon (0.1% to 1%): VaginitisFrequency not reported: Vaginal candidiasis, fungal urinary tract infection, proteinuria, vaginal discharge, asymptomatic foamy urine[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): AnemiaUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Leukocytosis, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, eosinophilia, increased INR, thrombocythemiaRare (less than 0.1%): Prolonged prothrombin timeFrequency not reported: Lymphadenopathy[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Infusion site reactionsFrequency not reported: Injection site reactions, injection site erythema, injection site phlebitis[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Hypomagnesemia, increased serum bicarbonate, electrolyte imbalance/disturbance, decreased appetite, hyperglycemia, increased serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)Frequency not reported: Increased blood phosphorous, elevated alkaline phosphatase, hypoglycemia, hypokalemia, hyperkalemia[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): HypersensitivityPostmarketing reports: Anaphylaxis, hypersensitivity reactions (including angioedema, drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms [DRESS], pruritus, hives, shortness of breath, difficulty swallowing, truncal erythema, pulmonary eosinophilia, vesiculobullous rash with mucous membrane involvement, sensation of oropharyngeal swelling)[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Eye irritationFrequency not reported: Blurred vision[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Renal impairment (including renal failure, renal insufficiency), increased serum creatinineFrequency not reported: Renal impairment (including interstitial nephritis, toxic nephropathy, acute prerenal failure, acute or chronic renal failure, renal impairment, renal tubular necrosis), worsening CrCl/decreased renal function[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Benign and malignant neoplasms (unspecified)[Ref]
1. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
3. "Product Information. Cubicin (daptomycin)." Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc, Lexington, MA. 
4. Doan TL,  Depetrillo J,  Singer C "Daptomycin-induced eosinophilia without pulmonary involvement." Am J Health Syst Pharm 67 (2010): 2107-9
5. Veligandla SR,  Louie KR,  Malesker MA,  Smith PW "Muscle pain associated with daptomycin." Ann Pharmacother 38 (2004): 1860-2
6. Abraham G,  Finkelberg D,  Spooner LM "Daptomycin-induced acute renal and hepatic toxicity without rhabdomyolysis (May)." Ann Pharmacother 42 (2008): 719-21
7. Kazory A,  Dibadj K,  Weiner ID "Rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure in a patient treated with daptomycin." J Antimicrob Chemother  (2006):
8. Akins RL,  Haase MR,  Levy EN "Pharmacokinetics of daptomycin in a critically ill adolescent with vancomycin-resistant enterococcal endocarditis." Pharmacotherapy 26 (2006): 694-8
9. Hawkey PM "Pre-clinical experience with daptomycin." J Antimicrob Chemother 62 Suppl 3 (2008): iii7-14
10. Deryke CA,  Sutherland C,  Zhang B,  Nicolau DP,  Kuti JL "Serum Bactericidal Activities of High-Dose Daptomycin with and without Coadministration of Gentamicin against Isolates of Staphylococcus aureus and Enterococcus species." Antimicrob Agents Chemother 50 (2006): 3529-34
11. Grayson ML "The treatment triangle for staphylococcal infections." N Engl J Med 355 (2006): 724-7
12. Papadopoulos S,  Ball AM,  Liewer SE,  Martin CA,  Winstead PS,  Murphy BS "Rhabdomyolysis during therapy with daptomycin." Clin Infect Dis 42 (2006): e108-10
13. Raghavan M,  Linden PK "Newer treatment options for skin and soft tissue infections." Drugs 64 (2004): 1621-42
14. Echevarria K,  Datta P,  Cadena J,  Lewis JS 2nd "Severe myopathy and possible hepatotoxicity related to daptomycin." J Antimicrob Chemother 55 (2005): 599-600
15. Cobb E,  Kimbrough RC,  Nugent KM,  Phy MP "Organizing pneumonia and pulmonary eosinophilic infiltration associated with daptomycin." Ann Pharmacother 41 (2007): 696-701
16. Fowler VG Jr,  Boucher HW,  Corey GR, et al. "Daptomycin versus standard therapy for bacteremia and endocarditis caused by Staphylococcus aureus." N Engl J Med 355 (2006): 653-65
17. Miller BA,  Gray A,  Leblanc TW,  Sexton DJ,  Martin AR,  Slama TG "Acute eosinophilic pneumonia secondary to daptomycin: a report of three cases." Clin Infect Dis 50 (2010): e63-8
18. Lal Y,  Assimacopoulos AP "Two cases of daptomycin-induced eosinophilic pneumonia and chronic pneumonitis." Clin Infect Dis 50 (2010): 737-40
Not all side effects for Cubicin may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
fever
rapid weight gain
tingling of the hands or feet
unusual weight gain or loss


Abdominal or stomach pain
agitation
black, tarry stools
bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
blurred vision
chest pain or discomfort
chills
coma
confusion
convulsions
cough
decreased frequency or amount of urine
decreased urine output
depression
diarrhea
difficult or labored breathing
difficult, burning, or painful urination
dilated neck veins
dizziness
dry mouth
extreme fatigue
fainting
faintness or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fast heartbeat
frequent urge to urinate
headache
hostility
increased blood pressure
increased thirst
irregular breathing
irregular heartbeat
irritability
itching in the genital or other skin areas
itching, pain, redness, swelling, tenderness, or warmth on the skin
lethargy
lightheadedness
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
mood changes
muscle pain or cramps
muscle twitching
nausea
nervousness
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
pale skin
pounding in the ears
rapid weight gain
rapid, shallow breathing
scaling
seizures
shortness of breath
slow or fast heartbeat
sneezing
sore throat
stupor
sweating
swelling of the face, fingers, ankles, or hands
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
usual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
weight gain
wheezing


Bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
clay-colored stools
dark urine
difficulty with moving
drowsiness
eye pain
feeling of warmth
feeling unusually cold
general feeling of illness
headache
hives
hoarseness
increase in bone pain
irritation
itching
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
loss of appetite
mood or mental changes
muscle aching or cramping
muscle spasms (tetany) or twitching
no blood pressure or pulse
pain in the joints
pinpoint red spots on the skin
rapid or irregular heartbeat
rash
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
redness of the skin
redness, blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
shivering
skin rash, encrusted, scaly and oozing
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stopping of heart
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, hands, or feet
swollen glands
swollen joints
swollen, painful, or tender lymph glands in the neck, armpit, or groin
trembling
troubled breathing or swallowing
twitching, twisting, uncontrolled repetitive movements of the tongue, lips, face, arms, or legs
unconsciousness
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin


Abdominal or stomach cramps
abdominal or stomach tenderness
diarrhea, watery and severe, which may also be bloody
difficulty with swallowing
dry cough
pain
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue 
unusual weight loss


Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site
diarrhea, mild
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)


Anxiety
back pain
blurred vision
cold sweats
coma
cool, pale skin
decreased appetite
depression
flushed, dry skin
fruit-like breath odor
increased hunger
increased urination
itching of the vagina or outside genitals
lack or loss of strength
limb pain
nervousness
nightmares
pain during sexual intercourse
shakiness
skin rash
sleeplessness
slurred speech
sweating
thick, white, curd-like vaginal discharge without odor or with mild odor
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep
unexplained weight loss


Acid or sour stomach
bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
belching
change in taste
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
full feeling
hearing loss
heartburn
indigestion
pain or discomfort in the chest, upper stomach, or throat
passing gas
pressure in the stomach
red, sore eyes
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
sensation of spinning
sore mouth or tongue
swelling of the abdominal or stomach area
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
weakness
white patches in the mouth or on the tongue

