Generic Name: fluticasone topical
Applies to fluticasone topical: topical application cream, topical application lotion, topical application ointment
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by fluticasone topical (the active ingredient contained in Cutivate). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking fluticasone topical:
Some of the side effects that can occur with fluticasone topical may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to fluticasone topical: topical cream, topical lotion, topical ointment
Common (1% to 10 %): Erythema, burning, stinging[Ref]
Very rare (less than 0.01%): Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, Increased weight, obesity, delayed weight gain, growth retardation in children, cushingoid features (e.g.  moon face, central obesity), decreased endogenous cortisol levels[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Intracranial hypertension (including bulging fontanelles, headaches, bilateral papilledema)[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Erythematous rash, facial telangiectasia, non-facial telangiectasia, urticaria, pruritusUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Skin infection, infected eczema, impetigo, atopic dermatitis, eczema, skin irritation, folliculitis, blisters, dryness of skin, local skin burningFrequency not reported: Irritation, folliculitis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, hypertrichosis, miliaria, pustular psoriasis[Ref]
Very rare (less than 0.01%): Hypertension[Ref]
Very rare (less than 0.01%): Osteoporosis[Ref]
Very rare (less than 0.01%): Cataract, glaucoma[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Viral warts, herpes simplexVery rare (less than 0.01%): Opportunistic infections[Ref]
Very rare (less than 0.01%): Hypersensitivity[Ref]
The most commonly reported side effects were erythema, burning, and stinging.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Flovent (fluticasone)." Glaxo Wellcome, Research Triangle Park, NC. 
2. "Product Information. Flonase (fluticasone)." Glaxo Wellcome, Research Triangle Park, NC. 
3. "Product Information. Cutivate (fluticasone)." Glaxo Wellcome, Research Triangle Park, NC. 
4. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
Not all side effects for Cutivate may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Burning, itching, redness, or stinging of the skin
hives or welts, skin rash
raised, dark red, wart-like spots on the skin, especially when used on the face


Burning, itching, and pain in hairy areas, pus at the root of the hair


Darkening of the skin
diarrhea
dizziness
fainting
loss of appetite
mental depression
nausea
thinning of the skin with easy bruising, especially when used on the face or where the skin folds together (eg, between the fingers)
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting


Body aches or pain
change in hearing
chills
common cold
cough
difficulty with breathing
dry skin
ear congestion
ear drainage
earache or pain in the ear
fever
headache
increased hair growth on the forehead, back, arms, and legs
lightheadedness
loss of voice
nasal congestion
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat

