Generic Name: glycopyrrolate
Applies to glycopyrrolate: oral solution, oral tablet
Other dosage forms:
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by glycopyrrolate (the active ingredient contained in Cuvposa). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking glycopyrrolate:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking glycopyrrolate, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with glycopyrrolate may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to glycopyrrolate: inhalation capsule, injectable solution, oral solution, oral tablet
Nervous system side effects have included headache, nervousness, drowsiness, dizziness, insomnia, and mental confusion.  The elderly appear to be more prone to the anticholinergic effects of glycopyrrolate (the active ingredient contained in Cuvposa) on the CNS.  Seizures have been reported from postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included tachycardia and palpitations.  In addition, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac arrest, hypertension, and hypotension have been reported from postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included dry mouth, nausea, vomiting, constipation, and feeling bloated.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included urinary hesitancy, urinary retention, and impotence.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have included blurred vision, increased ocular tension, cycloplegia, and dilatation of the pupil.[Ref]
Endocrine side effects have included suppression of lactation.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included dry mucous membranes and decreased sweating.[Ref]
General side effects have included weakness, hyperpyrexia, and a loss of taste.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included urticaria and other dermal manifestations.[Ref]
Immunologic side effects have included anaphylaxis.[Ref]
Local side effects have included pruritus, edema, erythema, and pain at the injection site.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included nasal congestion, nasal dryness, and sinusitis.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Glycopyrrolate (glycopyrrolate)." American Regent Laboratories Inc, Shirley, NY. 
2. Grum DF,  Osborne LR "Central anticholinergic syndrome following glycopyrrolate." Anesthesiology 74 (1991): 191-3
3. Shamsai J "Central anticholinergic syndrome: does it exist?" Anesthesiology 74 (1991): 1158
4. Wingard DW "Glycopyrrolate and the central anticholinergic syndrome." Anesthesiology 75 (1991): 1125-6
5. Madan V,  Beck MH "Urinary retention caused by topical glycopyrrolate for hyperhidrosis." Br J Dermatol 155 (2006): 634-5
6. "Product Information. Cuvposa (glycopyrrolate)." Shionogi USA Inc, Florham Park, NJ. 
Not all side effects for Cuvposa may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
inhalation capsule

Body aches or pain
chills
constipation
cough
decrease in the frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
feeling of warmth
fever
headache
loss of voice
nasal congestion
painful urination
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness


Abdominal or stomach discomfort or pain
abdominal or stomach distension
chest pain
confusion
convulsions
dizziness
dry heaves
dry mouth
fainting
increase in heart rate
lightheadedness
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
rapid breathing
shortness of breath or troubled breathing
stuffy nose
sunken eyes
thirst
tightness in the chest
vomiting
wheezing
wrinkled skin


low blood pressure
muscle weakness
trouble breathing


Altered mood
anxiety
attack, assault, or force
bloated
change in taste
chapped lips
crying
dry skin
dry tongue
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
full feeling
hyperventilation
irregular heartbeats
irritability
loss of taste
moaning
nervousness
pain
paleness of the skin
passing gas
rash
restlessness
shaking
trouble with sleeping
uncontrolled eye movements

