Generic Name: hydroxocobalamin
Applies to hydroxocobalamin: intravenous powder for solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by hydroxocobalamin (the active ingredient contained in Cyanokit). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking hydroxocobalamin, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with hydroxocobalamin may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to hydroxocobalamin: compounding powder, injectable solution, intravenous powder for injection
Gastrointestinal side effects have included mild transient diarrhea and nausea.[Ref]
Other side effects have included itching and feeling of swelling of the entire body.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included transitory exanthema and erythema.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have rarely included anaphylactic reactions.[Ref]
Local side effects have included infusion site reaction and pain with injection.[Ref]
Renal side effects have included chromaturia.
Cardiovascular side effects, following intravenous administration, have included increased blood pressure.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Hydro-Cobex (hydroxocobalamin)." Major Pharmaceuticals Inc, Rosemont, IL. 
2. "Product Information. Cyanokit (hydroxocobalamin)." Meridian Medical Technologies Inc, Columbia, MD. 
Not all side effects for Cyanokit may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Blurred vision
dizziness
headache
nervousness
pounding in the ears
redness of the skin
slow or fast heartbeat


Bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
cough
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty with swallowing
feeling of warmth
hives or welts, itching, or skin rash
large, hive-like swelling on the , eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rapid weight gain
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
sudden sweating
tightness in the chest
tingling of the hands or feet
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight gain or loss


Blemishes on the skin
dry, red, hot, or irritated skin
nausea
pimples
red colored urine


Acid or sour stomach
being forgetful
belching
diarrhea
heartburn
indigestion
redness or swelling of the eyes
restlessness
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain

