Generic Name: tranexamic acid
Applies to tranexamic acid: oral syrup, oral tablet
Other dosage forms:
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by tranexamic acid (the active ingredient contained in Cyklokapron). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking tranexamic acid:
Some of the side effects that can occur with tranexamic acid may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to tranexamic acid: compounding powder, intravenous solution, oral tablet
Gastrointestinal side effects have frequently included nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.  Abdominal pain has also been reported.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included giddiness, dizziness, headache, tension headache, and migraine.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included thromboembolic events (e.g., deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, cerebral thrombosis, acute renal cortical necrosis, and central retinal artery and vein obstruction) and anemia.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included allergic skin reactions, anaphylactic shock and anaphylactoid reactions.[Ref]
A case of severe allergic reaction to tranexamic acid was reported involving a subject on her fourth cycle of treatment who experienced dyspnea, tightening of her throat, and facial flushing that required emergency medical treatment.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have rarely included disturbances of color vision and retinal artery occlusion.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included back pain, musculoskeletal pain, muscle cramps and spasms, myalgia, and arthralgia including joint stiffness and swelling.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included nasal and sinus symptoms including nasal, respiratory tract and sinus congestion, sinusitis, acute sinusitis, sinus headache, and allergic sinusitis and sinus pain.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypotension when intravenous administration exceeded 1 mL per minute.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included ureteral obstruction due to clot formation in patients with upper urinary tract bleeding.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. LYSTEDA (tranexamic acid)." Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc, Newport, KY. 
2. "Product Information. Cyklokapron (tranexamic acid)." Pharmacia and Upjohn, Kalamazoo, MI. 
Not all side effects for Cyklokapron may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
intravenous solution

Pale skin
trouble breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness


Anxiety
change in vision
chest pain or tightness
confusion
cough
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness or lightheadedness
fainting
fast heartbeat
numbness of the hands
pain, redness, or swelling in the arm or leg
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
skin rash, hives, or itching


Abdominal or stomach pain, discomfort, or tenderness
chills or fever
difficulty with moving
headache, severe and throbbing
joint or back pain
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pains or stiffness
stuffy or runny nose


Diarrhea
nausea
vomiting

