Generic Name: pemoline
Applies to pemoline: oral tablet, oral tablet chewable
Along with its needed effects, pemoline (the active ingredient contained in Cylert) may cause some unwanted effects. Some side effects will have signs or symptoms that you can see or feel. Your doctor may watch for others by doing certain tests.
Pemoline may cause some serious side effects, including liver problems. Also, medicines like pemoline, when used for a long time, have been reported to slow the growth rate of children. Some doctors recommend medicine-free periods during treatment with pemoline. Pemoline may also cause unwanted effects on behavior in children with severe mental illness.
Although not all of these side effects may occur, if they do occur they may need medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking pemoline:
If any of the following side effects occur while taking pemoline, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
This medicine may also cause the following side effects that your doctor will watch for:
Some of the side effects that can occur with pemoline may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:
After you stop taking this drug, it is possible that you may still experience side effects that need medical attention. If you notice any of the following side effects check with your doctor immediately:


Applies to pemoline: oral tablet, oral tablet chewable
Hepatic side effects have included asymptomatic reversible increases in liver enzymes, hepatitis, jaundice, and life threatening hepatic failure.[Ref]
As of October 2005, hepatic failure resulting in liver transplant or death, usually within 4 weeks of onset of signs and symptoms of hepatic failure, has been reported in at least 13 patients receiving pemoline.  The reporting rate for hepatic failure with pemoline is 10 to 25 times greater than the background rate of hepatic failure in the general population.[Ref]
Insomnia tends to occur early in therapy.  Most cases are transient and respond to a reduction in dosage.[Ref]
General side effects have included insomnia which has been reported to be the most frequent side effect with the use of pemoline.  Growth suppression has been associated with the long term use of stimulants in children.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects including aplastic anemia have been reported.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects including seizures, hallucinations, dyskinetic movements of the tongue, lips, face, and extremities, mild depression, dizziness, increased irritability, headache, and drowsiness have been reported.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have included nystagmus and oculogyric crisis.[Ref]
Anorexia and weight loss tend to occur during the first weeks of therapy.  Most cases are transient.  Weight gain usually resumes within 3 to 6 months.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects including anorexia, weight loss, nausea, and stomach ache have been reported.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included skin rash.[Ref]
The case of severe hypotension was reported in a patient receiving pemoline (the active ingredient contained in Cylert) during general anesthesia.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects including a case of severe hypotension have been reported.[Ref]
Other side effects including ototoxicity have been reported.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included an isolated case of elevated serum acid phosphatase in one man with prostatic enlargement.  (The serum acid phosphatase normalized upon discontinuation of pemoline (the active ingredient contained in Cylert) and elevated again on rechallenge.)[Ref]
1. Sterling MJ, Kane M, Grace ND "Pemoline-induced autoimmune hepatitis." Am J Gastroenterol 91 (1996): 2233-4
2. Berkovitch M, Pope E, Phillips J, Koren G "Pemoline-associated fulminant liver failure: testing the evidence for causation." Clin Pharmacol Ther 57 (1995): 696-8
3. "Product Information. Cylert (pemoline)." Abbott Pharmaceutical, Abbott Park, IL. 
4. Shuster J "Adverse drug reaction. Pemoline and dyskinesia." Nursing 29 (1999): 24
5. Bohringer CH, Jahr JS, Rowell S, Mayer K "Severe hypotension in a patient receiving pemoline during general anesthesia." Anesth Analg 91 (2000): 1131-3
6. "Multum Information Services, Inc. Expert Review Panel"  
Not all side effects for Cylert may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Dark urine
yellow eyes or skin


Convulsions (seizures)
hallucinations (seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there)
nausea and vomiting
shortness of breath, troubled breathing, wheezing, or tightness in chest
skin rash
sores, ulcers, or white spots on lips or in mouth
swollen or painful glands
uncontrolled movements of eyes, tongue, lips, face, arms, or legs
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness
vocal sounds you cannot control


Agitation
confusion
convulsions (seizures)—may be followed by coma
false sense of well-being
fast heartbeat
hallucinations (seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there)
headache (severe)
high blood pressure
high fever
large pupils
muscle trembling or twitching
restlessness
sweating
vomiting


Liver problems
slow growth in children 


Loss of appetite
trouble in sleeping 
weight loss


Dizziness
drowsiness
headache
increased irritability
mental depression
stomachache


Abdominal pain
convulsions (seizures) 
headache
mental depression 
nausea
unusual behavior 
unusual tiredness or weakness
 vomiting

