Generic Name: aminoglutethimide
Applies to aminoglutethimide: oral tablet
Along with its needed effects, aminoglutethimide (the active ingredient contained in Cytadren) may cause some unwanted effects. Some side effects will have signs or symptoms that you can see or feel. Your doctor may watch for others by doing certain tests. Some of the unwanted effects that may be caused by aminoglutethimide are listed below. Although not all of these side effects may occur, if they do occur they may need medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking aminoglutethimide:
If any of the following side effects occur while taking aminoglutethimide, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
This medicine may also cause the following side effects that your doctor will watch for:
Some of the side effects that can occur with aminoglutethimide may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to aminoglutethimide: oral tablet
In general, side effects have been reported to have occurred in approximately two-thirds of patients, often limiting the use of the drug.  Side effects typically manifest as sedation or lethargy and skin rash.[Ref]
Somnolence and lethargy are dose-related and are more common early in therapy.  Although these effects are usually transient, some patients may require a dosage reduction to alleviate severe lethargy.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included lethargy (up to 40% incidence), ataxia (up to 10%), malaise, confusion, dizziness, and headache.[Ref]
Although these rashes are generally mild and transient, they have also occurred in conjunction with more serious side effects, such as cholestatic jaundice and blood dyscrasias.  In addition, patients on radiotherapy in close temporal association with aminoglutethimide (the active ingredient contained in Cytadren) administration have developed erythema, confluent and plaque-like rashes, and marked desquamation in the areas of radiation exposure.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included rash of the morbilliform or maculopapular types in up to 30% of patients, pruritus, petechiae, ecchymoses, urticaria, oral ulcerations, and capillaritis (purpura simplex).[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea (14%) and vomiting (3%).[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, eosinophilia, pancytopenia, and agranulocytosis.[Ref]
In a multicenter analysis involving 1,233 patients treated with aminoglutethimide, 0.9% of patients developed hematologic toxicity.  Thrombocytopenia and/or leukopenia were noted.  One patient with marrow aplasia developed septicemia and died.Additional cases of fatal thrombocytopenia and fatal agranulocytosis have been reported, although most patients recover with discontinuation of aminoglutethimide and supportive care.[Ref]
Elevations in SGOT, SGPT, GGT, alkaline phosphatase, lactate dehydrogenase, and total bilirubin have been reported with the use of aminoglutethimide (the active ingredient contained in Cytadren)   Two cases of cholestatic jaundice without evidence of hepatosplenomegaly or hepatic tenderness have also been reported and may be a manifestation of drug hypersensitivity.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included elevations in liver function tests and very rarely, cholestatic jaundice.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included an isolated case of diffuse alveolar damage and hemorrhage.  A case of pulmonary eosinophilia has also been reported.[Ref]
Because aminoglutethimide (the active ingredient contained in Cytadren) may suppress aldosterone production, orthostatic hypotension or persistent hypotension may develop in some patients.  Patients should be instructed to report symptoms of hypotension such as weakness or dizziness.  The addition of fludrocortisone to the drug regimen may alleviate this side effect in some patients.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, and tachycardia.[Ref]
The concurrent administration of glucocorticoids is often necessary to help prevent reflex ACTH secretion in response to low cortisol levels.  In addition, some patients may require supplementation with fludrocortisone, a mineralocorticoid.Iatrogenic adrenal insufficiency does not occur in all patients.  However, adrenal function should be monitored regularly.  In one case report, a patient developed adrenal failure approximately two years after starting an aminoglutethimide (the active ingredient contained in Cytadren) cortisone acetate regimen.[Ref]
Endocrine side effects have included hypothyroidism and adrenal insufficiency.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included skin rashes, pruritus, and rarely, Stevens-Johnson syndrome.[Ref]
Immunologic side effects have included positive antinuclear antibody and drug-induced systemic lupus erythematosus.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included leg cramps and myalgia.[Ref]
Aminoglutethimide interferes with the conversion of cholesterol to delta-5-pregnenolone.  Consequently, serum cholesterol levels may become elevated.  In one study, 68% of patients treated with aminoglutethimide (the active ingredient contained in Cytadren) 500 mg per day experienced elevations in total cholesterol and 100% of patients treated with 1000 mg per day experienced this effect.  In another study, patients who were normolipidemic at baseline developed elevated GGT in addition to elevated lipoproteins.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects have included elevations in total cholesterol, low density lipoprotein cholesterol, apoprotein B, and apoprotein C-III.  Aminoglutethimide has been reported to decrease thyroid hormone secretion.  Hyponatremia may also occur.[Ref]
Other side effects have included malaise, fever, chills, and facial fullness.  A case of worsening Meniere's disease has been reported.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Cytadren (aminoglutethimide)." Ciba Self-Medication Inc, Woodbridge, NJ. 
2. Rowell NP, Gilmore OJ, Plowman PN "Aminoglutethimide as second-line hormonal therapy in advanced breast cancer: response and toxicity." Hum Toxicol 6 (1987): 227-32
3. Demers LM, Boucher AE, Santen RJ "Aminoglutethimide therapy in breast cancer: relationship of blood levels to drug-related side effects." Clin Physiol Biochem 5 (1987): 287-91
4. Coltart RS "Severe mucocutaneous reaction to aminoglutethamide." Br J Radiol 57 (1984): 531-2
5. Santen RJ, Misbin RI "Aminoglutethimide: review of pharmacology and clinical use." Pharmacotherapy 1 (1981): 95-120
6. Lawrence B, Santen RJ, Lipton A, Harvey HA, Hamilton R, Mercurio T "Pancytopenia induced by aminoglutethimide in the treatment of breast cancer." Cancer Treat Rep 62 (1978): 1581-3
7. Stratakis CA, Chrousos GP "Capillaritis (purpura simplex) associated with use of aminoglutethimide in cushing's syndrome." Am J Hosp Pharm 51 (1994): 2589-91
8. Williams DS, Leslie MD "Skin reaction following aminoglutethimide and radiotherapy." Br J Radiol 60 (1987): 1226-7
9. Vanek N, Hortobagyi GN, Buzdar AU "Radiotherapy enhances the toxicity of aminoglutethimide." Med Pediatr Oncol 18 (1990): 162-4
10. Messeih AA, Lipton A, Santen RJ, Harvey HA, Boucher AE, Murray R, Ragaz J, Buzdar AU, Nagel GA, Henderson IC "Aminoglutethimide-induced hematologic toxicity: worldwide experience." Cancer Treat Rep 69 (1985): 1003-4
11. Ardman B, Rudders R "Aminoglutethimide-induced thrombocytopenia ." Cancer Treat Rep 66 (1982): 1785-6
12. Harris AL, Hughes G, Barrett AJ, Abusrewil S, Dowsett M, Smith IE "Agranulocytosis associated with aminoglutethimide: pharmacological and marrow studies." Br J Cancer 54 (1986): 119-22
13. Kampel LJ, Kurman MR "Severe leukopenia induced by aminoglutethimide." Cancer Treat Rep 68 (1984): 1277-8
14. Kissin MW, Kark AE "Irreversible thrombocytopenia following aminoglutethimide." Cancer Treat Rep 67 (1983): 849
15. Bonneterre J, Ghalim N, Nguyen M, Puchois P, Demaille A, Demarquilly C, Fruchart JC "Variations in lipoproteins during aminoglutethimide therapy." Breast Cancer Res Treat 10 (1987): 197-200
16. Perrault DJ, Domovitch E "Aminoglutethimide and cholestasis ." Ann Intern Med 100 (1984): 160
17. Rodman DM, Hanley M, Parsons P "Aminoglutethimide, alveolar damage, and hemorrhage ." Ann Intern Med 105 (1986): 633
18. Davies JP, Bentley P, Ghose RR "Aminoglutethimide-induced hyperkalaemia." Br J Clin Pract 43 (1989): 263-4
19. Figg WD, Thibault A, Sartor AO, Mays D, Headlee D, Calis KA, Cooper MR "Hypothyroidism associated with aminoglutethimide in patients with prostate cancer." Arch Intern Med 154 (1994): 1023-5
20. Rallison ML, Kumagai LF, Tyler FH "Goitrous hypothyroidism induced by amino-glutethimide, anticonvulsant drug." J Clin Endocrinol Metab 27 (1967): 265-72
21. McCraken M, Benson EA, Hickling P "Systemic lupus erythematosus induced by aminoglutethimide." Br Med J 281 (1980): 1254
22. Bork E, Hansen M "Severe hyponatremia following simultaneous administration of aminoglutethimide and diuretics." Cancer Treat Rep 70 (1986): 689-90
23. Bonneterre J, Nguyen M, Hecquet B, Cappelaere P "Aminoglutethimide-induced hypercholesterolaemia ." Lancet 1 (1984): 912-3
24. Box M, Saltissi D, Fawcett D "Inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone following aminoglutethimide therapy." Br J Urol 58 (1986): 724-5
25. Surks MI, Sievert R "Drugs and thyroid function." N Engl J Med 333 (1995): 1688-94
Not all side effects for Cytadren may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Black, tarry stools
blood in urine or stools
cough or hoarseness, accompanied by fever or chills
fever or chills
 lower back or side pain, accompanied by fever or chills
 painful or difficult urination, accompanied by fever or chills
pinpoint red spots on skin
shortness of breath
unusual bleeding or bruising
yellow eyes or skin


Drowsiness
measles-like skin rash or itching on face and/or palms of hands


Clumsiness
dizziness or lightheadedness (especially when getting up from a lying or sitting position)
fast heartbeat
mental depression
shakiness
slurred speech
uncontrolled eye movements
unusual tiredness or weakness


Neck tenderness or swelling


Low red blood cell count
low white blood cell count


Loss of appetite
nausea


Deepening of voice in females
headache 
increased hair growth in females
irregular menstrual periods
muscle pain
vomiting

