Applies to dalbavancin: intravenous powder for solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by dalbavancin. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking dalbavancin:
Some of the side effects that can occur with dalbavancin may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to dalbavancin: intravenous powder for injection
The most common adverse reactions were nausea, headache, and diarrhea.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Anemia, hemorrhagic anemia, leucopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, petechiae, eosinophilia, thrombocytosis, international normalized ratio increased, phlebitis, wound hemorrhage, spontaneous hematoma[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Rash, pruritusFrequency not reported: Urticaria, flushing[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, diarrhea, vomitingFrequency not reported: Gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, hematochezia, abdominal pain[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hepatotoxicity, hepatic transaminases increased, blood alkaline phosphatase increased[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Anaphylactoid reaction[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Clostridium difficile colitis, oral candidiasis, vulvovaginal mycotic infection[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Infusion-related reactions[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hypoglycemia[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): HeadacheFrequency not reported: Dizziness[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Bronchospasm[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Dalvance (dalbavancin)." Durata Therapeutics, Inc., Chicago, IL. 
Not all side effects for dalbavancin may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Abdominal or stomach pain or tenderness
back pain
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
chest pain or tightness
chills
clay colored stools
cough
dark urine
decreased appetite
difficulty swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
feeling of warmth
fever
headache
hives, welts, itching, or rash
loss of appetite
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
redness of the skin
severe abdominal or stomach cramps and pain
sore mouth or tongue
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swelling of the feet or lower legs
swollen glands
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
watery and severe diarrhea, which may also be bloody
yellow eyes or skin


Diarrhea


Anxiety
blurred vision
cold sweats
coma
confusion
cool, pale skin
depression
increased hunger
nightmares
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech

