Dandelion is an herb also known as Blowball, Cankerwort, Cochet, Couronne de Moine, Délice Printanier, Dent-de-Lion, Diente de Leon, Dudal, Endive Sauvage, Fausse Chicorée, Florin d'Or, Florion d'Or, Herba Taraxaci, Laitue de Chien, Leontodon taraxacum, Lion's Tooth, Pisse au Lit, Pissenlit, Priest's Crown, Pu Gong Ying, Salade de Taupe, Swine Snout, Taraxaci Herba, Taraxacum, Tête de Moine, Wild Endive and other names.
Dandelion has been used in alternative medicine to treat tonsillitis, bladder infections, upset stomach, constipation, arthritis pain, and other conditions. However, these uses have not been proven with research.
It is not certain whether dandelion is effective in treating any medical condition. Medicinal use of this product has not been approved by the FDA. Dandelion should not be used in place of medication prescribed for you by your doctor.
Dandelion is often sold as an herbal supplement. There are no regulated manufacturing standards in place for many herbal compounds and some marketed supplements have been found to be contaminated with toxic metals or other drugs. Herbal/health supplements should be purchased from a reliable source to minimize the risk of contamination.
Dandelion may also be used for purposes not listed in this product guide.
Follow all directions on the product label and package. Tell each of your healthcare providers about all your medical conditions, allergies, and all medicines you use.
Ask a doctor, pharmacist, or other healthcare provider if it is safe for you to use this product if you have:
allergies to plants such as ragweed, daisies, chrysanthemums, or marigolds.
It is not known whether dandelion will harm an unborn baby. Do not use this product without medical advice if you are pregnant.
It is not known whether dandelion passes into breast milk or if it could harm a nursing baby. Do not use this product without medical advice if you are breast-feeding a baby.
Do not give any herbal/health supplement to a child without medical advice.
When considering the use of herbal supplements, seek the advice of your doctor. You may also consider consulting a practitioner who is trained in the use of herbal/health supplements.
If you choose to use dandelion, use it as directed on the package or as directed by your doctor, pharmacist, or other healthcare provider. Do not use more of this product than is recommended on the label.
Call your doctor if the condition you are treating with dandelion does not improve, or if it gets worse while using this product.
Store at room temperature away from moisture and heat.
Skip the missed dose if it is almost time for your next scheduled dose. Do not use extra dandelion to make up the missed dose.
Seek emergency medical attention or call the Poison Help line at 1-800-222-1222.
Follow your healthcare provider's instructions about any restrictions on food, beverages, or activity.
Avoid using dandelion together with other herbal/health supplements that can also affect blood-clotting. This includes angelica (dong quai), capsicum, clove, danshen, garlic, ginger, ginkgo, horse chestnut, panax ginseng, poplar, red clover, saw palmetto, turmeric, and willow.
Get emergency medical help if you have signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
Although not all side effects are known, dandelion is thought to be possibly safe for most people.
This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088.
Other drugs may interact with dandelion, including prescription and over-the-counter medicines, vitamins, and herbal products. Tell each of your health care providers about all medicines you use now and any medicine you start or stop using.
Do not take dandelion without medical advice if you are using any of the following medications:
lithium;
an antibiotic, such as Cipro, Levaquin, Avelox, Noroxin, and others;
a blood thinner or medicine to treat or prevent blood clots;
a diuretic or "water pill";
heart or blood pressure medication; or
a sedative such as Valium.
This list is not complete. Other drugs may interact with dandelion, including prescription and over-the-counter medicines, vitamins, and herbal products. Not all possible interactions are listed in this product guide.
Copyright 1996-2012 Cerner Multum, Inc. Version: 5.01. 
Date modified: May 03, 2017Last reviewed: June 09, 2015
allergies to plants such as ragweed, daisies, chrysanthemums, or marigolds.
lithium;
an antibiotic, such as Cipro, Levaquin, Avelox, Noroxin, and others;
a blood thinner or medicine to treat or prevent blood clots;
a diuretic or "water pill";
heart or blood pressure medication; or
a sedative such as Valium.
Consult with a licensed healthcare professional before using any herbal/health supplement. Whether you are treated by a medical doctor or a practitioner trained in the use of natural medicines/supplements, make sure all your healthcare providers know about all of your medical conditions and treatments.
Remember, keep this and all other medicines out of the reach of children, never share your medicines with others, and use this medication only for the indication prescribed.
Disclaimer: Every effort has been made to ensure that the information provided by Cerner Multum, Inc. ('Multum') is accurate, up-to-date, and complete, but no guarantee is made to that effect. Drug information contained herein may be time sensitive. Multum information has been compiled for use by healthcare practitioners and consumers in the United States and therefore Multum does not warrant that uses outside of the United States are appropriate, unless specifically indicated otherwise. Multum's drug information does not endorse drugs, diagnose patients or recommend therapy. Multum's drug information is an informational resource designed to assist licensed healthcare practitioners in caring for their patients and/or to serve consumers viewing this service as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, the expertise, skill, knowledge and judgment of healthcare practitioners. The absence of a warning for a given drug or drug combination in no way should be construed to indicate that the drug or drug combination is safe, effective or appropriate for any given patient. Multum does not assume any responsibility for any aspect of healthcare administered with the aid of information Multum provides. The information contained herein is not intended to cover all possible uses, directions, precautions, warnings, drug interactions, allergic reactions, or adverse effects. If you have questions about the drugs you are taking, check with your doctor, nurse or pharmacist.