Commonly reported side effects of dantrolene include: drowsiness.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to dantrolene: oral capsule
Other dosage forms:
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by dantrolene. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention. Serious side effects are very rare when dantrolene is taken for a short time, for example, when it is used for a few days before, during, or after surgery or anesthesia to prevent or treat malignant hyperthermia. However, serious side effects may occur, especially when the medicine is taken for a long time.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking dantrolene:
Some of the side effects that can occur with dantrolene may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to dantrolene: intravenous powder for injection, oral capsule
Nervous system side effects have commonly included drowsiness (30%), dizziness (14%), and malaise.  Speech disturbances, headache, seizures and hallucinations have been reported less frequently.[Ref]
Several reports of severe constipation and abdominal distention leading to functional obstruction have been reported.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have frequently included diarrhea which may be severe enough to require discontinuation.  Constipation, abdominal cramps, nausea, and vomiting have been reported less frequently.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included aplastic anemia, leukopenia, and lymphocytic lymphoma.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have commonly included weakness which is usually tolerable.  Myalgia and backache have also been reported.[Ref]
Risk of hepatic injury is greater in females, patients over 35 years of age, and in patients on concurrent medications.  The severity of the reaction appears to increase with increases in dose and duration.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included hepatic injury (1.8%), hepatitis (0.6%), and fatal hepatitis (0.3%).[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have infrequently included pulmonary edema with the use of intravenous dantrolene.  Pleural effusion and pneumonitis have also been reported.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have infrequently included pericarditis (both with and without pleural effusion) in patients receiving oral dantrolene.  Cardiovascular side effects reported postmarketing have included heart failure.[Ref]
Local side effects have included thrombophlebitis in patients receiving intravenous dantrolene.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included rare reports of acne.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have included visual disturbances.[Ref]
Other side effects have included one case of bilateral hearing loss which was thought to have been secondary to dantrolene treatment.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects reported postmarketing have included anaphylaxis.
1. Andrews LG, Muzumdar AS, Pinkerton AC "Letter: Hallucinations associated with dantrolene sodium therapy." Can Med Assoc J 112 (1975): 148
2. Chyatte SB, Basmajian JV "Dantrolene sodium: long-term effects in severe spasticity." Arch Phys Med Rehabil 54 (1973): 311-5
3. "Product Information. Dantrium (dantrolene)." Procter and Gamble Pharmaceutic, Cincinnati, OH. 
4. Allen GC, Cattran CB, Peterson RG, Lalande M "Plasma levels of dantrolene following oral administration in malignant hyperthermia-susceptible patients." Anesthesiology 69 (1988): 900-4
5. Dykes MH "Evaluation of a muscle relaxant: dantrolene sodium (Dantrium)." JAMA 231 (1975): 862-4
6. Chan CH "Dantrolene sodium and hepatic injury." Neurology 40 (1990): 1427-32
7. Shaivitz SA "Letter: Dantrolene." JAMA 229 (1974): 1282-3
8. Wilkinson SP, Portmann B, Williams R "Hepatitis from dantrolene sodium." Gut 20 (1979): 33-6
9. Utili R, Boitnott JK, Zimmerman HJ "Dantrolene-associated hepatic injury. Incidence and character." Gastroenterology 72 (1977): 610-6
10. Miller DH, Haas LF "Pneumonitis with dantrolene." J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 47 (1984): 553-4
11. Felz MW, HavilandFoley DJ "Eosinophilic pleural effusion due to dantrolene: Resolution with steroid therapy." South Med J 94 (2001): 502-4
12. Petusevsky ML, Faling LJ, Rocklin RE, Snider GL, Merliss AD, Moses JM, Dorman SA "Pleuropericardial reaction to treatment with dantrolene." JAMA 242 (1979): 2772-4
13. Pembroke AC, Saxena SR, Kataria M, Zilkha KD "Acne induced by dantrolene." Br J Dermatol 104 (1981): 465-8
14. Pace-Balzan A, Ramsden RT "Sudden bilateral sensorineural hearing loss during treatment with dantrolene sodium (dantrium)." J Laryngol Otol 102 (1988): 57-8
Not all side effects for dantrolene may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
intravenous powder for solution, intravenous powder for suspension

Bloody or black, tarry stools
bloody or dark urine
bluish color changes in skin color
changes in speech
chest pain
confusion
constipation
convulsions (seizures)
decrease in frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
difficult urination
difficulty in moving
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
difficulty in swallowing
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
increased frequency of urination
increased urge to urinate during the night
joint pain
light-colored stools
lightheadedness
loss of bladder control
mental depression
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pains or stiffness
muscle spasm or jerking of all extremities
nausea and vomiting
pain in lower back
pain or burning while urinating
pain, tenderness, or changes in skin color
painful urination
severe stomach pain
shortness of breath
skin rash, hives, or itching
slow or troubled breathing
sudden decrease in amount of urine 
sudden loss of consciousness
swelling of foot or leg
swollen joints
unusual tiredness or weakness
upper right abdominal pain
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
waking to urinate at night
yellow eyes or skin


Diarrhea
dizziness
drowsiness
general feeling of discomfort or illness
muscle weakness


Abdominal or stomach cramps or discomfort
abnormal hair growth
acne-like rash
blurred or double vision or any change in vision
change in taste
chills and fever
disturbed color perception
excessive tearing
halos around lights
headache
itching skin
loss of appetite
night blindness
overbright appearance of lights
redness of skin
seeing double
skin rash, encrusted, scaly and oozing
sleeplessness
slurring of speech or other speech problems
sudden decrease in amount of urine
sweating
trouble in sleeping
tunnel vision
unable to sleep 
unusual nervousness
weight loss

