Commonly reported side effects of darifenacin include: constipation and xerostomia. Other side effects include: dyspepsia.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to darifenacin: oral tablet extended release
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by darifenacin. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking darifenacin:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking darifenacin, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with darifenacin may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to darifenacin: oral tablet extended release
A higher incidence of GI side effects has been reported with higher dosages.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal (GI) side effects have been reported the most frequently.  These have included constipation (14.8% to 20.9% or greater), dry mouth (18.7% or greater), dyspepsia (2.7% to 4.5% or greater), and nausea (4.1% or greater).  Abdominal pain, vomiting, and diarrhea have been reported in greater than or equal to 2% of patients.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included urinary tract infection (3.7% or greater) and vaginitis.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included headache (6.7%) and dizziness (2% or greater).  A variety of CNS anticholinergic effects have been reported, including headache, confusion, hallucinations and somnolence.  Patients should be monitored for signs of anticholinergic CNS effects, particularly after beginning treatment or increasing the dose.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have included abnormal vision (2% or greater) and dry eyes.[Ref]
General side effects have included flu syndrome (3%), asthenia (2% or greater), arthralgias, peripheral edema, and weight gain.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included dry skin, rash, and pruritus.  Dermatologic side effects reported postmarketing have included erythema multiforme and interstitial granuloma annulare.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included bronchitis, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects reported postmarketing have included heart palpitations.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypertension.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgias.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects have included weight gain and swelling (angioedema) of the face, lips, tongue, and/or throat which may result in airway obstruction..[Ref]
Other side effects have included flu syndrome (3%) and accidental injury (3%).[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included postmarketing reports of anaphylactic reaction.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Enablex (darifenacin)." Novartis Pharmaceuticals, East Hanover, NJ. 
Not all side effects for darifenacin may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
difficult, burning, or painful urination
frequent urge to urinate
lower back or side pain


Decrease in the frequency of urination
decrease in the urine volume
difficulty in passing urine
dribbling or painful urination


Changes in vision


Acid or sour stomach
belching
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
dry mouth
heartburn
indigestion
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain


Diarrhea
dizziness
dry eyes
lack or loss of strength
nausea


Accidental injury
bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
changes in vision
chills
congestion
cough producing mucus
difficulty with breathing
difficulty with moving
dry skin
dryness or soreness of the throat
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
hoarseness
itching of the vagina or genital area
itching skin
joint pain
loss of appetite
muscle aches and pains
muscle stiffness
nervousness
pain during sexual intercourse
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
pounding in the ears
rash
runny nose
shortness of breath or troubled breathing
slow or fast heartbeat 
sneezing
stuffy nose
tender, swollen glands in the neck
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
tightness in the chest
tingling of the hands or feet
trouble with swallowing
unusual weight gain or loss
voice changes
vomiting
wheezing

