 Check with your doctor if any of these most COMMON side effects persist or become bothersome:
Constipation; diarrhea; dizziness; drowsiness; dry mouth, nose, or throat; excitability; headache; nervousness; trouble sleeping; upset stomach.
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; itching; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, or tongue); confusion; fast or irregular heartbeat; fever, chills, or persistent sore throat; hallucinations; redness; seizures; severe dizziness, drowsiness, lightheadedness, or headache; severe or persistent nervousness or trouble sleeping; shortness of breath; symptoms of liver problems (eg, dark urine, loss of appetite, pale stools, stomach pain, yellowing of the skin or eyes); tremor; trouble urinating or inability to urinate; vision changes.
Cardiovascular side effects of phenylephrine have included palpitations, arrhythmias, and cardiovascular collapse with hypotension.
Gastrointestinal side effects of dextromethorphan have included upset stomach.Gastrointestinal side effects of guaifenesin have included stomach upset and vomiting with higher than recommended doses.  Doses recommended for expectoration have rarely been associated with gastrointestinal upset.Gastrointestinal side effects of phenylephrine have included nausea.
General side effects of phenylephrine have included pallor and weakness.
Genitourinary side effects of phenylephrine have included dysuria.
Hepatic side effects of acetaminophen have included severe and sometimes fatal dose dependent hepatitis in alcoholic patients.  Hepatotoxicity has been increased during fasting.
Hypersensitivity side effects of dextromethorphan have included rare reports of fixed-drug eruptions.
Nervous system side effects of dextromethorphan have included drowsiness and dizziness.  Other side effects such as excitation, mental confusion, and opioid like respiratory depression have been rare and occurred at higher dosages.  In some cases of abuse, patients experienced euphoria, hyperactivity, mania, and auditory and visual hallucinations.Nervous system side effects of guaifenesin have occasionally included dizziness and headache.Nervous system side effects of phenylephrine have included headache, dizziness, nervousness, restlessness, tremor, insomnia, convulsions, and central nervous system depression.
Psychiatric side effects of phenylephrine have included hallucinations, fear, and anxiety.
Respiratory side effects of phenylephrine have included respiratory difficulty.
Dermatologic side effects associated with acetaminophen includes the risk of rare but potentially fatal serious skin reactions known as Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP).Dermatologic side effects of guaifenesin have included rare reports of rash.
It is possible that some side effects of Vicks DayQuil Severe Cold & Flu may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
liquid