Generic Name: metyrosine
Applies to metyrosine: oral capsule
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by metyrosine (the active ingredient contained in Demser). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking metyrosine, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some of the side effects that can occur with metyrosine may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:
After you stop taking this drug, it is possible that you may still experience side effects that need medical attention. If you notice any of the following side effects check with your doctor immediately:
Also, after you Stop taking metyrosine, you may have feelings of increased energy or you may have trouble sleeping. However, these effects should last only for two or three days.


Not all side effects for Demser may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Diarrhea
drooling
 trembling and shaking of hands and fingers
trouble in speaking


Anxiety
confusion
 hallucinations (seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there)
mental depression


Black, tarry stools
blood in urine or stools
unusual bleeding or bruising
muscle spasms, especially of neck and back
 painful urination
pinpoint red spots on skin
restlessness
shortness of breath
shuffling walk
skin rash and itching 
swelling of feet or lower legs
 tic-like (jerky) movements of head, face, mouth, and neck
 unusual tiredness or weakness


Drowsiness


Decreased sexual ability in men
dryness of mouth
nausea, vomiting, or stomach pain
stuffy nose
swelling of breasts or unusual milk production


Diarrhea

