Applies to desirudin: subcutaneous powder for solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by desirudin. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking desirudin:
Some of the side effects that can occur with desirudin may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to desirudin: subcutaneous powder for injection
Hematologic side effects including hemorrhage (30%) and hematomas are among the most serious and commonly reported side effects.  In addition, anemia, thrombosis, thrombophlebitis, decreased hemoglobin, and cerebrovascular disorder have been reported.[Ref]
Other reported side effects have included wound secretion, leg edema, fever, hematuria, dizziness, epistaxis, impaired healing, leg pain and hematemesis.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects including hypotension have been rarely reported.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea and vomiting have been reported rarely.[Ref]
Local side effects including injection site mass have been reported infrequently.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity reactions including at least one case report of acute urticaria following desirudin administration have been reported.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Ipravask (desirudin)." Aventis Pharmaceuticals, Swiftwater, PA. 
2. Matheson AJ,  Goa KL "Desirudin: a review of its use in the management of thrombotic disorders." Drugs 60 (2000): 679-700
3. Bircher AJ,  Czendlik CH,  Messmer SL,  Muller P,  Howald H "Acute urticaria caused by subcutaneous recombinant hirudin: evidence for an IgG-mediated hypersensitivity reaction." J Allergy Clin Immunol 98(5 Pt 1) (1996): 994-6
Not all side effects for desirudin may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bleeding gums
collection of blood under the skin
coughing up blood
deep, dark purple bruise
difficulty with breathing or swallowing
dizziness
headache
increased menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding
itching, pain, redness, or swelling
nosebleeds
paralysis
prolonged bleeding from cuts
red or black, tarry stools
red or dark brown urine
shortness of breath


Changes in skin color, pain, tenderness, or swelling of the foot or leg
cough
fast heartbeat
hives
pale skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
skin rash
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
wheezing
wound secretion


Blood in the urine
blurred vision
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fever
severe or sudden headache
sudden loss of coordination
sudden slurring of speech
sweating
tenderness, pain, swelling, warmth, skin discoloration, and prominent superficial veins over affected area
trouble healing
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds


Nausea
vomiting

