Applies to desoximetasone topical: topical application cream, topical application gel/jelly, topical application ointment, topical application spray
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by desoximetasone topical. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking desoximetasone topical:
Some of the side effects that can occur with desoximetasone topical may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to desoximetasone topical: compounding powder, topical cream, topical gel, topical ointment, topical spray
The most commonly reported side effects were application site dryness, application site irritation, and application site pruritus.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, miliaria[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Application site dryness, application site irritation, application site pruritusFrequency not reported: Burning, itching[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hyperglycemia, latent diabetes mellitus[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Topicort (desoximetasone topical)." Hoechst Marioin-Roussel Inc, Kansas City, MO. 
Not all side effects for desoximetasone topical may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Flushing or redness of the skin
redness, blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
unusually warm skin


Blistering, burning, crusting, dryness, or flaking of the skin
irritation
itching, scaling, severe redness, soreness, or swelling of the skin
redness and scaling around the mouth
thinning of the skin with easy bruising, especially when used on the face  or where the skin folds together (eg, between the fingers)
thinning, weakness, or wasting away of the skin


Burning, itching, and pain in hairy areas, or pus at the root of the hair


Acne or pimples
burning and itching of the skin with pinhead-sized red blisters
increased hair growth on the forehead, back, arms, and legs
lightening of normal skin color
lightening of treated areas of dark skin
reddish purple lines on the arms, face, legs, trunk, or groin
softening of the skin

