Generic Name: phenoxybenzamine
Applies to phenoxybenzamine: oral capsule
In rats and mice, phenoxybenzamine (the active ingredient contained in Dibenzyline) has been found to increase the risk of development of malignant tumors. It is not known if phenoxybenzamine increases the chance of tumors in humans.
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by phenoxybenzamine. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
Some of the side effects that can occur with phenoxybenzamine may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to phenoxybenzamine: compounding powder, oral capsule
Cardiovascular side effects have included postural hypotension and tachycardia.  These symptoms are evidence of adrenergic blockade and vary according to the degree of blockade.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included inhibition of ejaculation.   This symptom is indicative of adrenergic blockade and varies according to the degree of blockade.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included nasal congestion.   This symptom is indicative of adrenergic blockade and varies according to the degree of blockade.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have included miosis.  This symptom is indicative of adrenergic blockade and varies according to the degree of blockade.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included drowsiness and fatigue.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included gastrointestinal irritation.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Dibenzyline Capsules (phenoxybenzamine)." SmithKline Beecham, Philadelphia, PA. 
Not all side effects for Dibenzyline may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Dizziness or lightheadedness, especially when getting up from a lying or sitting position
fast heartbeat
pinpoint pupils
stuffy nose


Confusion
drowsiness
dryness of mouth
headache
lack of energy
sexual problems in males 
unusual tiredness or weakness

