Generic Name: etidronate
Applies to etidronate: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by etidronate (the active ingredient contained in Didronel). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking etidronate:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking etidronate, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with etidronate may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to etidronate: intravenous solution, oral tablet
Gastrointestinal side effects are more common with higher doses (10 to 20 mg/kg) and may be alleviated by dividing the daily dose.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Diarrhea, nausea Rare (less than 0.1%): Burning of the tongueFrequency not reported: Exacerbation of peptic ulcer disease including perforation in a few patients, gastritisPostmarketing reports: Esophagitis; glossitis, duodenal ulcer[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Erythema multiforme, alopeciaFrequency not reported: Angioedema, follicular eruption, macular rash, maculopapular rash, pruritus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, urticaria, rash, pruritus[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Arthropathies (arthralgia and arthritis)Rare (less than 0.1%): Atypical subtrochanteric and diaphyseal femoral fracturesFrequency not reported: Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ), leg cramps, increased or recurrent bone pain at pagetic sites and onset of pain at previously asymptomatic sitesPostmarketing reports: Bone fracture, osteomalacia[Ref]
At higher doses the incidence of increased or recurrent bone pain at pagetic sites and/or onset of pain at previously asymptomatic sites rise.  When therapy continues, pain resolves in some patients but persists in others.[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): ConfusionPostmarketing reports: Depression, hallucination[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Paresthesia, peripheral neuropathyFrequency not reported: HeadachePostmarketing reports: Neuropsychiatric events including amnesia[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Exacerbation of asthma[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Leukopenia, agranulocytosis pancytopenia[Ref]
1. Saunders RL, Jr "Appearance of a gastric ulcer during diphosphonate therapy in a woman with CRST syndrome." South Med J 70 (1977): 1327-9
2. Beauchesne MF, Miller PF "Etidronate and alendronate in the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis." Ann Pharmacother 33 (1999): 587-99
3. "Product Information. Didronel I.V. Infusion (etidronate)." MGI Pharma Inc, Minnetonka, MN. 
4. Lourwood DL "The pharmacology and therapeutic utility of bisphosphonates." Pharmacotherapy 18 (1998): 779-89
5. Jaworski RC, Gibson M "Mitral and aortic valve abnormalities in a patient with fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva." Pathology 15 (1983): 325-8
6. vanStaa TP, Leufkens H, Abenhaim L, Cooper C "Postmarketing surveillance of the safety of cyclic etidronate." Pharmacotherapy 18 (1998): 1121-8
7. "Product Information. Didronel Tablets (etidronate)." Procter and Gamble Pharmaceuticals, Cincinnati, OH. 
8. Jones PB, McCloskey EV, Kanis JA "Transient taste-loss during treatment with etidronate ." Lancet 2 (1987): 637
9. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
10. Evans RA, MacDonald D "Diphosphonates and painful feet." Aust N Z J Med 13 (1983): 175-6
11. Mautalen C, Gonzalez D, Blumenfeld EL, Santini Araujo E, Schajowicz F "Spontaneous fractures of uninvolved bones in patients with Paget's disease during unduly prolonged treatment with disodium etidronate (EHDP)." Clin Orthop Jun (1986): 150-5
12. Evans RA, Dunstan CR, Hills E, Wong SY "Pathologic fracture due to severe osteomalacia following low-dose diphosphonate treatment of Paget's disease of bone." Aust N Z J Med 13 (1983): 277-9
13. Gallacher SJ, Boyle IT, Capell HA "Pseudogout associated with the use of cyclical etidronate therapy." Scott Med J 36 (1991): 49
14. Boyce BF, Smith L, Fogelman I, Johnston E, Ralston S, Boyle IT "Focal osteomalacia due to low-dose diphosphonate therapy in Paget's disease." Lancet 1 (1984): 821-4
Not all side effects for Didronel may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bone pain or tenderness (increased, continuing, or returning—in patients with Paget's disease)


Bone fractures, especially of the thigh bone


Abdominal or stomach pain or burning
bloody, black, or tarry stools
chest pain
chills
cough or hoarseness
fever
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
hives
lower back or side pain
noisy breathing
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
skin rash or itching
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or inside the mouth
swelling of the arms, legs, face, lips, tongue, or throat
swollen glands
tightness in the chest
unusual bleeding or bruising


Blistering, peeling, loosening of the skin
bone, joint, or muscle pain that is severe and occasionally disabling
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
difficulty in moving
difficulty in swallowing
discouragement
feeling sad or empty
heartburn
heavy jaw feeling
irritability
lack of appetite
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loosening of a tooth
loss of interest or pleasure
loss of memory
pain or burning in the throat
pain, swelling, or numbness in the mouth or jaw
problems with memory
rash with flat lesions or small raised lesions on the skin
red irritated eyes
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
redness or discoloration of the skin
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting


Abdominal or stomach cramps
confusion
convulsions
difficulty in breathing
irregular heartbeats
mood or mental changes
muscle cramps in the hands, arms, feet, legs, or face
numbness and tingling around the mouth, fingertips, or feet
shortness of breath
tremor


Diarrhea
nausea


Burning feeling in the chest or stomach
hair loss, thinning of hair
headache
indigestion
leg cramps
stomach upset
tenderness in the stomach area

