Applies to difluprednate ophthalmic: ophthalmic emulsion
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by difluprednate ophthalmic. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking difluprednate ophthalmic:
Some of the side effects that can occur with difluprednate ophthalmic may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to difluprednate ophthalmic: ophthalmic emulsion
Common (1% to 10%): Corneal edema, ciliary and conjunctival hyperemia, eye pain, photophobia, posterior capsule opacification, anterior chamber cells, anterior chamber flare, conjunctival edema, blepharitis, reduced visual acuity, punctate keratitis, eye inflammation, iritis, blurred vision, eye irritationUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Corneal pigmentation and striae, episcleritis, eye pruritus, eyelid irritation and crusting, foreign body sensation, increased lacrimation, macular edema, sclera hyperemia, uveitis, increased intraocular pressure, iritis, limbal and conjunctival hyperemia, dry eye, iridocyclitis[Ref]
The most commonly reported side effects were elevated intraocular pressure, visual acuity and field defects, and posterior subcapsular cataract formation.[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Application site discomfort or irritation[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Headache[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Durezol (difluprednate ophthalmic)." Sirion Therapeutics, Tampa, FL. 
Not all side effects for difluprednate ophthalmic may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Blurred vision
change in color vision
decreased vision or other changes in vision
difficulty seeing at night
eye discomfort
eye pain
eye redness
increase in blood flow to the whites of the eyes
increased sensitivity of the eyes to sunlight
painful irritation of the front clear part of the eye
sensitivity of the eyes to light
swelling or redness of the eye and lining of the eyelid


Eyelid irritation and crusting
tearing
throbbing eye pain
watering of the eyes


Dry eyes


Burning, itching, or soreness of the eye
feeling of having something in the eye

