Generic Name: valsartan
Common side effects of Diovan include: dizziness and increased serum potassium. Other side effects include: hypotension.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to valsartan: oral capsule, oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by valsartan (the active ingredient contained in Diovan). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking valsartan:
Some of the side effects that can occur with valsartan may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to valsartan: oral capsule, oral tablet
Very common (10% or more): Headache (up to 14%), dizziness (up to 14%)Common (1% to 10%): Dizziness Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Vertigo[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): CoughUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Dyspnea[Ref]
A 71-year-old woman experienced an acute onset of angioedema and a photosensitive pruritic rash after 3 months of valsartan (the active ingredient contained in Diovan) therapy.  Her symptoms dissipated and the rash resolved after treatment with subcutaneous epinephrine, intravenous methylprednisolone, diphenhydramine, and emollient cream.A unique case of dose-dependent, valsartan-induced angioedema has been reported.  Two hours after initiating a dose increase (160 to 320 mg/day) of valsartan, a patient developed angioedema (i.e., swelling of lips and tongue).  Symptoms resolved following a reduction in dose to the original dosage of 160 mg/day.[Ref]
Very rare (less than 0.01%): Angioedema[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Symptomatic hypotension in 5.5% of heart failure patients in clinical trialsRare (less than 0.1%): Palpitations, chest painFrequency not reported: Dizziness related to orthostatic hypotensionPostmarketing reports: Heart failure[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Impaired renal function, increases in serum creatinine concentrations, blood urea nitrogen, and potassiumPostmarketing reports: Renal failure[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Pruritus, rash, alopeciaPostmarketing reports: Bullous dermatitis[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Diarrhea, constipation, dry mouth, dyspepsia, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, flatulencePostmarketing reports: Taste disturbance (i.e., altered sensitivity of basic tastes) has been reported following repeated dosing[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Back pain, muscle cramps, myalgiasVery rare (less than 0.01%): Rhabdomyolysis[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Anxiety, insomnia, paresthesias, somnolence[Ref]
Very rare (less than 0.01%): Impotence[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Hematocrit decreased, hemoglobin decreased, neutropeniaPostmarketing reports: Thrombocytopenia, vasculitis[Ref]
Valsartan-associated hepatotoxicity in a patient with hepatitis B surface antigen (HBs-Ag) positivity (without signs and symptoms) has been reported.  After 1 month of treatment with valsartan (the active ingredient contained in Diovan)  this patient developed pruritic erythematous skin changes, nausea, jaundice, right subcostal abdominal pain, elevated liver enzymes, and mild hepatomegaly.  Signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity resolved within 2 to 3 weeks following discontinuation of valsartan and the patient remained asymptomatic after 6 months of follow-up.[Ref]
Very rare (less than 0.01%): HepatitisFrequency not reported: Hepatic enzymes increased[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Diovan (valsartan)." Novartis Pharmaceuticals, East Hanover, NJ. 
2. Waeber B, Burnier M, Nussberger J, Brunner HR "Experience with angiotensin II antagonists in hypertensive patients." Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol 23 ( Suppl (1996): s142-6
3. McInnes GT "Clinical advantage of valsartan." Cardiology 91 (1999): 14-8
4. Oparil S, Dyke S, Harris F, et al. "The efficacy and safety of valsartan compared with placebo in the treatment of patients with essential hypertension." Clin Ther 18 (1996): 797-810
5. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
6. Holwerda NJ, Fogari R, Angeli P, et al. "Valsartan, a new angiotensin II antagonist for the treatment of essential hypertension: efficacy and safety compared with placebo and enalapril." J Hypertens 14 (1996): 1147-115
7. Benz J, Oshrain C, Henry D, Avery C, Chiang YT, Gatlin M "Valsartan, a new angiotensin II receptor antagonist: a double-blind study comparing the incidence of cough with lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide." J Clin Pharmacol 37 (1997): 101-7
8. Irons BK,  Kumar A "Valsartan-induced angioedema." Ann Pharmacother 37 (2003): 1024-7
9. Frye CB, Pettigrew TJ "Angioedema and photosensitive rash induced by valsartan." Pharmacotherapy 18 (1998): 866-8
10. Burnier M, Roch-Ramel F, Brunner HR "Renal effects of angiotensin II receptor blockade in normotensive subjects." Kidney Int 49 (1996): 1787-90
11. Ziai F, Ots M, Provoost AP, Troy JL, Rennke HG, Brenner BM, Mackenzie HS "The angiotensin receptor antagonist, irbesartan, reduces renal injury in experimental chronic renal failure." Kidney Int Suppl 57 (1996): s132-6
12. Burnier M, Hagman M, Nussberger J, Biollaz J, Armagnac C, Brouard R, Weber B, Brunner HR "Short-term and sustained renal effects of angiotensin II receptor blockade in healthy subjects." Hypertension 25 (1995): 602-9
13. Marquart-Elbaz C,  Grosshans E,  Lipsker D,  Lipsker D "Sartans, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, can induce psoriasis." Br J Dermatol 147 (2002): 617-8
14. Tsuruoka S,  Wakaumi M,  Ioka T, et al. "Angiotensin II receptor blocker-induces blunted taste sensitivity: comparison of candesartan and valsartan." Br J Clin Pharmacol 60 (2005): 204-7
15. Flores CA,  Ardiles LG,  Aros CA, et al. "Valsartan-Induced Hematocrit Changes in Renal Transplant Patients." Transplant Proc 37 (2005): 1586-1588
16. Kiykim A,  Altintas E,  Sezgin O, et al. "Valsartan-induced hepatotoxicity in a HBs-Ag-Positive patient." Am J Gastroenterol 98 (2003): 507
Not all side effects for Diovan may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bloody urine
cold sweats
confusion
decreased frequency or amount of urine
difficult breathing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying position
fainting
increased thirst
irregular heartbeat
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
nausea
nervousness
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
swelling of the face, fingers, or lower legs
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
weight gain


Chills
fever
hoarseness
sore throat
swelling of the mouth, hands, or feet
trouble with swallowing or breathing (sudden)


Dark urine
general tiredness and weakness
light-colored stools
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
yellow eyes and skin


Abdominal or stomach pain
back pain
blurred vision
cold or flu-like symptoms
coughing
diarrhea
difficulty with moving
headache
muscle pain or stiffness
pain, swelling, or redness in the joints


Hair loss
thinning of the hair

