Commonly reported side effects of dofetilide include: ventricular arrhythmia, ventricular tachycardia, and chest pain. Other side effects include: flu-like symptoms.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to dofetilide: oral capsule
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by dofetilide. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking dofetilide:
Some of the side effects that can occur with dofetilide may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to dofetilide: oral capsule
Torsade de pointes is the only arrhythmia reported by the manufacturer that showed a dose-response relationship.[Ref]
Cardiovascular effects have included ventricular arrhythmias, AV block, bundle branch block, heart block, chest pain, angioedema, bradycardia, cerebral ischemia, cerebrovascular accident, edema, heart arrest and myocardial infarct.[Ref]
General side effects including headache (11%), dizziness (8%), flu syndrome ( 4%), insomnia (4%), accidental injury (3%), back pain (3%) and rash (3%) and sudden death have been reported.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal effects have included nausea (5%), diarrhea (3%) and abdominal pain (3%).[Ref]
Respiratory effects have included respiratory tract infection (7%), dyspnea (6%) and cough.[Ref]
Nervous system effects have included paresthesias, facial paralysis, paralysis, flaccid paralysis, migraine and syncope.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects including liver damage has been reported with a frequency of less than 2%.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Tikosyn (dofetilide)" Pfizer US Pharmaceuticals, Atlanta, GA. 
2. Frost L, Mortensen PE, Tingleff J, Platou ES, Christiansen EH, Christiansen N "Efficacy and safety of dofetilide, a new class III antiarrhythmic agent, in acute termination of atrial fibrillation or flutter afte coronary artery bypass surgery. Dofetilide Post-CABG Study Group." Int J Cardiol 58 (1997): 135-40
3. Lenz TL, Hilleman DE "Dofetilide, a new class III antiarrhythmic agent." Pharmacotherapy 20 (2000): 776-86
4. Crijns HJ, Kingma JH, Gosselink AT, Dalrymple HW, De Langen CD, Lie K "Sequential bilateral bundle branch block during dofetilide, a new class III antiarrhythmic agent, in a patient with atria fibrillation." J Cardiovasc Electrophysiol 4 (1993): 459-66
Not all side effects for dofetilide may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Dizziness
fainting
fast heartbeat


Chest pain
confusion
facial or flaccid paralysis
numbness or tingling of the hands, feet, or face
paralysis
pounding, slow heartbeat
slurred speech
swelling of the ankles, arms, face, feet, fingers, legs, lips, tongue, or throat
troubled breathing
unexplained shortness of breath
unusual tiredness or weakness
weight gain
yellow eyes or skin


Abdominal or stomach pain
accidental injury
back pain
chills
cough
diarrhea
fever
flu-like symptoms
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
joint pain
loss of appetite
migraine
muscle aches and pains
nausea
rash
runny nose
shivering
sneezing
sore throat
sweating
trouble sleeping
vomiting

