Generic Name: diflunisal
Applies to diflunisal: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by diflunisal (the active ingredient contained in Dolobid). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking diflunisal:
Some of the side effects that can occur with diflunisal may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to diflunisal: compounding powder, oral tablet
Gastrointestinal side effects may occur in up to 20% of patients treated with diflunisal (the active ingredient contained in Dolobid) and include nausea (3% to 9%), dyspepsia (3% to 9%), gastrointestinal pain (3% to 9%), diarrhea (3% to 9%), vomiting, constipation, and flatulence.  Peptic ulceration, gastrointestinal bleeding, and perforation have also been reported.[Ref]
Diflunisal doses of 500 to 1000 mg per day have not been associated with an increase in fecal blood loss.  In one study, diflunisal 2000 mg per day was associated with a 3-fold increase in fecal blood loss while aspirin 1300 mg per day was associated with a 6-fold increase in fecal blood loss compared to placebo.Despite these results, serious, sometimes fatal, gastrointestinal events are reported.  Gastrointestinal ulcers, bleeding, and perforation occur in 2% to 4% of patients treated for up to one year.Patients with a history of serious gastrointestinal events or alcohol abuse are at increased risk for severe gastrointestinal side effects.  Diflunisal should be used with caution in these patients.[Ref]
Renal side effects include acute renal failure due to interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, hematuria, and proteinuria.  Renal decompensation has also been reported.[Ref]
Diflunisal may impair the ability of the kidney to cope with low renal blood flow states due to inhibition of prostaglandin-dependent afferent arteriolar vasodilation.  Renal function may be further compromised in patients with heart failure, hypovolemia, cirrhosis, nephrotic syndrome, or hypoalbuminemia.  Additional risk factors for diflunisal-induced renal insufficiency are advanced age and concomitant use of diuretics.[Ref]
Diflunisal inhibits platelet prostaglandin synthetase in a dose-dependent manner.  Doses of 250 mg twice a day had no effect on platelet function.  Doses of 500 mg twice a day has a slight inhibitory effect.  Doses of 1000 mg twice a day significantly inhibited platelet function.  Unlike aspirin, diflunisal (the active ingredient contained in Dolobid) inhibition of platelet function is reversible.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included a dose-dependent inhibition of platelet function by diflunisal, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, and hemolytic anemia.  A case of febrile neutropenia has also been described in the literature.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included rash (3% to 9%), erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, fixed drug eruption, pruritus, dry mucous membranes, stomatitis, and photosensitivity.  In addition, a case of lichenoid photoreactive epidermal necrosis has been reported.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects include elevations in liver function tests in up to 15% of patients.  Significant elevations (three times normal values) occur in 1% of patients.  Rare cases of cholestasis and hepatitis have been reported.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included reports of liver function abnormalities, jaundice, cholestasis, and hepatitis.[Ref]
A multisystem hypersensitivity syndrome has been described by the manufacturer.  Fever, chills, and dermatologic findings are noted.  In addition, elevations in liver function test, jaundice, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, disseminated intravascular coagulation, and renal dysfunction as well as arthralgia, myalgia, malaise, anorexia, and disorientation may be present.  In the event that a hypersensitivity syndrome is suspected, diflunisal (the active ingredient contained in Dolobid) should be discontinued.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included anaphylactoid reactions with bronchospasm, angioedema, and flushing in less than 1% of patients, and hypersensitivity vasculitis. In addition, a hypersensitivity syndrome, which may be life-threatening, has been reported.[Ref]
Necrotizing fasciitis has been reported rarely and may be fatal.  The presence of Group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus may be a contributing factor in these cases.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have been reported rarely, and direct causality could not be established.  These have included chest pain, palpitation, and syncope.[Ref]
Metabolic abnormalities include a case report of pseudoporphyria.  Salicylates have been reported to displace triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) from protein binding sites.  The initial effect is an increase in serum free T4 concentrations.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects have included reports of somnolence, insomnia, nervousness, depression, hallucinations, confusion, and disorientation.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included reports of dizziness, headache, vertigo, light-headedness, and paresthesias.[Ref]
Rare reports of fulminant necrotizing fasciitis, sometimes with fatal outcomes, have been described in persons with group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus, who are also receiving nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, including diflunisal (the active ingredient contained in Dolobid) [Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included rare reports of muscle cramps, asthenia, fatigue and tiredness.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have included transient visual disturbances including blurred vision.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included reports of dyspnea.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included reports of dysuria.[Ref]
1. Enevoldson TP, Wiles CM "Acute parkinsonism associated with flurbibrofen." BMJ 300 (1990): 540-1
2. Green D, Davies RO, Holmes GI et al "Effects of diflunisal on platelet function and fecal blood loss." Pharmacotherapy 3 (1983): s65-9
3. Scott B "Bleeding massive gastric ulcer on diflunisal (Dolobid) ." Br Med J 1 (1979): 489
4. Mason AM "Bleeding massive gastric ulcer on diflunisal (Dolobid) ." Br Med J 1 (1979): 888
5. Talbot R, Rees H "Perforated duodenal ulcer on diflunisal (Dolobid) ." Br Med J 2 (1978): 1229
6. "Product Information. Dolobid (diflunisal)." Merck & Co, Inc, West Point, PA. 
7. Chan LK, Winearls CG, Oliver DO, Dunnill MS "Acute interstitial nephritis and erythroderma associated with diflunisal." Br Med J 280 (1980): 84-5
8. Wharton JG, Oliver DO, Dunnill MS "Acute renal failure associated with diflunisal." Postgrad Med J 58 (1982): 104-5
9. Hunter JA, Dorward AJ, Knill-Jones R, Gunn RT, Mackie R "Diflunisal and Stevens-Johnson syndrome ." Br Med J 2 (1978): 1088
10. Bobrove AM "Diflunisal-associated thrombocytopenia in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis ." Arthritis Rheum 31 (1988): 148-9
11. McLean CA, Begley CG, Harris RA "Diflunisal-induced neutropenia." Aust N Z J Med 16 (1986): 811-2
12. Roetzheim RG, Herold AH, Van Durme DJ "Nonpigmenting fixed drug eruption caused by diflunisal." J Am Acad Dermatol 24 (1991): 1021-2
13. Street ML, Winkelmann RK "Lichenoid photoreactive epidermal necrosis with diflunisal." J Am Acad Dermatol 20 (1989): 850-1
14. Podevin P, Biour M "Drug-induced ''allergic hepatitis''." Clin Rev Allergy Immunol 13 (1995): 223-44
15. Warren JS "Diflunisal-induced cholestatic jaundice." Br Med J 2 (1978): 736-7
16. Poe TE, Limpert GH, Winker GJ "Anaphylactoid reaction to diflunisal." J Fam Pract 28 (1989): 104-5
17. Arias J, Fernandezrivas M, Moral A, Garcia MA, Senent CJ "Selective adverse reactions to diflunisal." Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol 74 (1995): 160-2
18. Krige JE, Spence RA, Potter PC, Terblanche J "Necrotising fasciitis after diflunisal for minor injury ." Lancet 2 (1985): 1432-3
19. Surks MI, Sievert R "Drugs and thyroid function." N Engl J Med 333 (1995): 1688-94
20. Taylor BJ, Duffill MB "Pseudoporphyria from nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs." N Z Med J 100 (1987): 322-3
Not all side effects for Dolobid may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Stomach cramps or pain


Back or leg pains
bleeding gums
blistering, peeling, loosening of skin
bloody or black, tarry stools
bloody or cloudy urine
blurred or loss of vision
burning feeling in chest or stomach
burning while urinating
clay-colored stools
constipation
cough or hoarseness
cracks in the skin
dark-colored urine
diarrhea
difficult or painful urination
difficulty breathing
difficulty swallowing
disturbed color perception
dizziness
double vision
facial swelling
fast heartbeat
feeling of warmth
fever with or without chills
flu-like symptoms
general body swelling
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
greatly decreased frequency of urination or amount of urine
halos around lights
headache
hives
increased blood pressure
increased thirst
indigestion
itching
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, sex organs
light-colored stools
liver function abnormalities
loss of appetite
loss of heat from the body
lower back or side pain
muscle aches, pains, or weakness
nausea or vomiting
night blindness
noisy breathing
nosebleeds
overbright appearance of lights
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips or tongue
red, irritated eyes
redness of the face, neck, arms and occasionally, upper chest
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, swollen skin
scaly skin
severe or continuing stomach pain
shortness of breath
skin rash
sores, ulcers, or white spots in mouth or on lips
sore throat
stomach upset
swelling of face, fingers, feet or lower legs
swollen lymph nodes
tenderness in stomach area
tightness in chest
troubled breathing
tunnel vision
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
upper right abdominal pain
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
weight gain
wheezing
yellow eyes or skin


Change in consciousness
confusion about identity, place, and time
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in ears
decreased awareness or responsiveness
deep or fast breathing with dizziness
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
hearing loss
loss of consciousness
numbness of feet, hands, and around mouth
severe sleepiness
sweating


Acid or sour stomach
belching
heartburn
indigestion
stomach discomfort or upset


Bloated, full feeling
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
discouragement
dry mucous membranes
excess air or gas in stomach or intestines
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
feeling sad or empty
increased sensitivity of skin to sunlight
irritability
lack or loss of strength
lightheadedness
loss of interest or pleasure
mood or mental changes
nervousness
passing gas
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
sensation of spinning
severe sunburn
sleeplessness
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
tiredness
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep
weight loss

