Allergies, anemia, headaches, constipation, high blood pressure, ulcers, rheumatism, and as an antispasmodic. It is also used in women for absent, painful, or irregular menstrual periods; menstrual cramps or weakness; stomach pain after childbirth; infertility; and menopausal symptoms. It may also have other uses. Check with your pharmacist for more details regarding the particular brand you use.
Dong quai is an herbal product. It works by promoting circulation and helping to restore balance in the hormones.
Contact your doctor or health care provider right away if any of these apply to you.
Some medical conditions may interact with dong quai. Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you have any medical conditions, especially if any of the following apply to you:
Some MEDICINES MAY INTERACT with dong quai. Tell your health care provider if you are taking any other medicines, especially any of the following:
This may not be a complete list of all interactions that may occur. Ask your health care provider if dong quai may interact with other medicines that you take. Check with your health care provider before you start, stop, or change the dose of any medicine.
Use dong quai as directed by your doctor. Check the label on the medicine for exact dosing instructions.
Ask your health care provider any questions you may have about how to use dong quai.
All medicines may cause side effects, but many people have no, or minor, side effects. Check with your doctor if any of these most COMMON side effects persist or become bothersome:
Changes in menstrual bleeding; diarrhea; worsening of hot flashes.
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; itching; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, or tongue); excessive or prolonged vaginal bleeding.
This is not a complete list of all side effects that may occur. If you have questions about side effects, contact your health care provider. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. To report side effects to the appropriate agency, please read the Guide to Reporting Problems to FDA.
Contact 1-800-222-1222 (the American Association of Poison Control Centers), your local poison control center, or emergency room immediately.
Store at room temperature away from heat, moisture, and light unless otherwise directed on the package label. Do not store in the bathroom. Most herbal products are not in childproof containers. Keep dong quai out of the reach of children and away from pets.
This information should not be used to decide whether or not to take dong quai or any other medicine. Only your health care provider has the knowledge and training to decide which medicines are right for you. This information does not endorse any medicine as safe, effective, or approved for treating any patient or health condition. This is only a brief summary of general information about dong quai. It does NOT include all information about the possible uses, directions, warnings, precautions, interactions, adverse effects, or risks that may apply to dong quai. This information is not specific medical advice and does not replace information you receive from your health care provider. You must talk with your healthcare provider for complete information about the risks and benefits of using dong quai.
you are allergic to any ingredient in dong quai
you have a cold, the flu, or diarrhea
you have a blood clotting or blood platelet disorder
you are pregnant or breast-feeding
if you are planning to become pregnant
if you are taking any prescription or nonprescription medicine, herbal preparation, or dietary supplement
if you have allergies to medicines, foods, or other substances
if you have endometriosis; cancer of the breast, ovaries, or uterus; or fibroids in the uterus
Blood thinners (eg, warfarin) because the risk of side effects, such as bleeding, may be increased
Dong quai is taken orally as teas, tablets, capsules, or alcoholic extracts. Dosing depends on the use and the source of the product.
Use as directed on the package, unless instructed otherwise by your doctor.
If you miss taking a dose of dong quai for 1 or more days, there is no cause for concern. If your doctor recommended that you take it, try to remember your dose every day.
If you experience excessive menstrual bleeding or fever, or if you develop a rash or hives, tell your doctor immediately. Do not take any more doses of this product unless your doctor tells you to do so.
Use of this product may cause increased sensitivity to the sun. Avoid exposure to the sun, sunlamps, or tanning booths until you know how you react to this product. Use a sunscreen or protective clothing if you must be outside for a long period of time.
Diabetes patients - If you have diabetes, dong quai may affect your blood sugar. Check blood sugar levels closely and ask your doctor before adjusting the dose of your diabetes medicine.
Dong quai is not recommended for use in CHILDREN.
PREGNANCY and BREAST-FEEDING: Do not use this product if you are pregnant. Do not breast-feed while taking this product.
If you have any questions about dong quai, please talk with your doctor, pharmacist, or other health care provider.
Dong quai is to be used only by the patient for whom it is prescribed. Do not share it with other people.
If your symptoms do not improve or if they become worse, check with your doctor.
Check with your pharmacist about how to dispose of unused medicine.