Generic Name: quazepam
Common side effects of Doral include: drowsiness. Other side effects include: dizziness, vertigo, insomnia, confusion, and headache.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to quazepam: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by quazepam (the active ingredient contained in Doral). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking quazepam:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking quazepam, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with quazepam may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to quazepam: oral tablet
The most frequently reported side effects included daytime drowsiness, headache, fatigue, dizziness, dry mouth, and dyspepsia.
Very common (10% or more): Daytime drowsiness (12%)Common (1% to 10%): Headache, fatigue, dizziness.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Dry mouth, dyspepsia[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Doral (quazepam)." Wallace Laboratories, Cranbury, NJ. 
Not all side effects for Doral may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Drowsiness


Dizziness


Anxiety
dry mouth
hyperventilation
increased muscle spasm
irregular heartbeats
irritability
nervousness
nightmares
restlessness
shaking
shortness of breath
trouble in sleeping
unusual excitement, nervousness, restlessness, or irritability


Abdominal or stomach pain
changes in patterns and rhythms of speech
chills
clay-colored stools
dark urine
decrease in frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
fever
headache
inability to move eyes
increased blinking or spasms of the eyelid
itching
loss of appetite
loss of bladder control
nausea
painful urination
rash
seizures
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
sleeplessness
slurred speech
sticking out of the tongue
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
trouble in breathing, speaking, or swallowing
unable to sleep
uncontrolled twisting movements of the neck, trunk, arms, or legs
unpleasant breath odor
unusual facial expressions
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin


Change in consciousness
loss of consciousness
mood or mental changes
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness


Acid or sour stomach
belching
heartburn
indigestion
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain


Decreased interest in sexual intercourse
inability to have or keep an erection
increased in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
increased interest in sexual intercourse
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
menstrual changes
sweating
vomiting

