Commonly reported side effects of dorzolamide ophthalmic include: burning sensation of eyes, eye discomfort, eye pruritus, local ocular hypersensitivity reaction, stinging of eyes, superficial punctate keratitis, swelling of eye, bitter taste, eye irritation, and eye redness. Other side effects include: blurred vision, lacrimation, photophobia, and xerophthalmia.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to dorzolamide ophthalmic: ophthalmic solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by dorzolamide ophthalmic. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking dorzolamide ophthalmic:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking dorzolamide ophthalmic, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with dorzolamide ophthalmic may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to dorzolamide ophthalmic: ophthalmic solution
The most commonly reported side effects were ocular burning, stinging, or discomfort, and bitter taste.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Superficial punctate keratitis (up to 15%), burning/stingingCommon (1% to 10%): Tearing, conjunctivitis, eyelid inflammation, eye itching, eyelid irritation, blurred visionUncommon (0.1% to 1%): IridocyclitisRare (less than 0.1%): Irritation, pain, eyelid crusting, transient myopia, corneal edema, ocular hypotony, choroidal detachment following filtration surgery[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Ocular allergic reaction (10%)Rare (less than 0.1%): Signs and symptoms of local reactions (palpebral reactions) and systemic allergic reactions including angioedema, urticaria, pruritus, rash, shortness of breath, bronchospasm[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Urolithiasis[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): EpistaxisFrequency not reported: Dyspnea[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Contact dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysisRare (less than 0.1%): Skin rash[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Biter taste (up to 25%)Frequency not reported: Headache[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): NauseaRare (less than 0.1%): Throat irritation, dry mouth[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Asthenia/fatigue[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Trusopt (dorzolamide ophthalmic)." Merck & Co, Inc, West Point, PA. 
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
3. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
Not all side effects for dorzolamide ophthalmic may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Burning, stinging, or discomfort when medicine is applied
itching, redness, swelling, or other sign of the eye or eyelid irritation


Burning, dry, or itching eyes
discharge from the eye
excessive tearing
redness, pain, or swelling of the eye, eyelid, or inner lining of the eyelid


Blood in the urine
blurred vision
nausea or vomiting
pain in the side, back, or abdomen
skin rash
tearing


Blistering, burning, crusting, dryness, or flaking of the skin
change in vision
chills
cough
diarrhea
difficult or labored breathing
flashes of light
floaters in vision
hives or welts
itching skin
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
noisy breathing
redness of the skin
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness


Confusion
irregular heartbeat
muscle cramps or pain
numbness, tingling, pain, or weakness in the hands or feet
seizures
trembling
weakness and heaviness of the legs


Bitter taste
feeling of something in the eye


Changes in color vision
difficulty seeing at night
dryness of the eyes
eyelid reactions
headache
increased sensitivity of the eyes to sunlight


Bloody nose
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
change in distance vision
difficulty in focusing the eyes
dizziness
dry mouth
eyelid crusting
lack or loss of strength
scaling of the skin
severe redness, soreness, or swelling of the skin

