Commonly reported side effects of doxazosin include: dizziness, fatigue, vertigo, hypertension, symptomatic orthostatic hypotension, malaise, and orthostatic effect. Other side effects include: syncope, drowsiness, edema, and dizziness.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to doxazosin: oral tablet, oral tablet extended release
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by doxazosin. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking doxazosin, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some of the side effects that can occur with doxazosin may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to doxazosin: oral tablet, oral tablet extended release
Doxazosin is generally well-tolerated.  Side effects are usually mild to moderate in intensity and may resolve with continued therapy.[Ref]
Like other alpha-blockers, doxazosin has been associated with significant decreases in total and LDL serum cholesterol and serum triglycerides.  This beneficial effect on the lipid profile may be important in some patients with ischemic heart disease.Data from ALLHAT (which led to the discontinuation of the doxazosin-treatment arm of the study) indicated that users of doxazosin had 25% more cardiovascular events and were twice as likely to be hospitalized for congestive heart failure compared to users of chlorthalidone.  However, these two drugs were found to be similarly effective in preventing heart attacks and in reducing the risk of death from all causes.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects are the most common.  Dizziness has been reported in 3% to 14% of patients and is most likely to occur 2 to 6 hours after dosing.  It may be minimized by administration of the drug at bedtime, particularly at the beginning of therapy.  Rarely, syncope has been associated with doxazosin, and appears to be more likely in patients greater than 65 years old.  Peripheral edema, palpitations, chest pain, and tachycardia have been reported in 7%, 4%, 3%, and 2% of patients, respectively.Cerebrovascular accidents, postural dizziness, bradycardia, cardiac arrhythmias, and myocardial infarction have been reported in postmarketing studies.Patients treated with doxazosin during the Antihypertensive and Lipid Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT) had a greater likelihood of developing congestive heart failure.[Ref]
Ocular side effects including Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome (IFIS) have been observed in some patients undergoing phacoemulsification cataract surgery while being treated with alpha-1 blockers.Blurred vision has been reported in postmarketing studies.[Ref]
Most reports were in patients treated with an alpha-1 blocker at the time IFIS occurred, but in some instances the alpha-1 blocker had been stopped prior to surgery.  The manufacturer recommends that patients be questioned to determine whether or not they have taken alpha-1 blockers prior to being considered for cataract surgery.  If it is determined that the patient has taken an alpha-1 blocker, the patient's ophthalmologist should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique that may be necessary should IFIS be observed during the procedure.[Ref]
Anxiety, insomnia, and paresthesias have each been reported in 2% of patients.  Dry mouth and flushing have been reported in less than 2% of patients.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included dizziness in up to 17%, headache or fatigue/lethargy in 10% to 15%, and somnolence in 5% of patients.  Hypoesthesia and paresthesia have been reported in postmarketing studies.[Ref]
Respiratory system complaints of dyspnea and rhinitis have been reported in 3% to 4% of patients.  Aggravated bronchospasm has been reported in postmarketing studies.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects are unusual, and are mainly limited to nausea or diarrhea in 1% to 3% of patients.[Ref]
Dyspepsia, general abdominal pain, flatulence, and constipation have each been reported in about 1% of patients.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal pain has been reported in 1% to 5% of patients.  Muscle cramps and muscle weakness have been reported in postmarketing studies.[Ref]
Genitourinary complaints are rare.  Approximately 3% of men have reported impotence and about 1% have reported urinary frequency.  Hematuria, micturition disorder, micturition frequency, nocturia, polyuria, and gynecomastia have been reported in postmarketing studies.  In addition, at lease one case of priapism associated with doxazosin use has been reported.[Ref]
The Treatment of Mild Hypertension Study (TOMHS), a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study has shown that there is a slightly and significantly higher incidence of sexual dysfunction (obtaining and maintaining erections) among male patients who were taking doxazosin for 48 months compared with placebo[Ref]
In a study of 23 hypertensive patients with renal insufficiency, a single case of a personality change has been associated with the use of doxazosin.[Ref]
Psychiatric abnormalities including depression and anxiety have been reported in less than 2% of patients.  Anorexia and nervousness have been reported in postmarketing studies.  In addition, at least one case of psychosis associated with doxazosin use has been reported.[Ref]
The manufacturer has reported 4 possible doxazosin-related cases of neutropenia from a database of 2,400 patients.  In cases where follow-up was available the white blood cell count and differential cell count returned to normal after drug discontinuation.  No patients became symptomatic as a result of the low white blood cell or neutrophil counts.[Ref]
Hematologic abnormalities are extremely rare.  Decreases in baseline white blood cell and neutrophil counts of 2.4% and 1.0%, respectively, have been reported from controlled clinical trials.  Leukopenia, purpura, and thrombocytopenia have been reported in postmarketing studies.[Ref]
From a study of 1,548 patients, less than 2% reported a rash.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity to doxazosin has been rarely reported.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects including abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis, cholestatic hepatitis, and jaundice have been reported in postmarketing studies.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included urticaria.  Alopecia has been reported in postmarketing studies.[Ref]
Other side effects including fatigue, hot flashes, and malaise have been reported in postmarketing studies.[Ref]
1. "Multum Information Services, Inc. Expert Review Panel"  
2. Kaplan SA, Soldo KA, Olsson CA "Effect of dosing regimen on efficacy and safety of doxazosin in normotensive men with symptomatic prostatism: a pilot study." Urology 44 (1994): 348-52
3. Roehrborn CG, Siegel RL "Safety and efficacy of doxazosin in benign prostatic hyperplasia: a pooled analysis of three double-blind, placebo-controlled studies." Urology 48 (1996): 406-15
4. Messerli FH "Implications of discontinuation of doxazosin arm of ALLHAT." Lancet 355 (2000): 863-4
5. Bartels AC, de Vries PM, Oe LP, van Bronswyk H, Donker AJ, Reveillaud RJ, Fillastre JP, Zech P "Doxazosin in the treatment of patients with mild or moderate hypertension and mild or moderate renal insufficiency." Am Heart J 116 (1988): 1772-7
6. Ball SG "Discontinuation of doxazosin arm of ALLHAT." Lancet 355 (2000): 1558
7. Fulton B, Wagstaff AJ, Sorkin EM "Doxazosin: an update of its clinical pharmacology and therapeutic applications in hypertension and benign prostatic hyperplasia." Drugs 49 (1995): 295-320
8. Young RA, Brogden RN "Doxazosin. A review of its pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties, and therapeutic efficacy in mild or moderate hypertension." Drugs 35 (1988): 525-41
9. Langdon CG, Packard RS "Doxazosin in hypertension - results of a general practice study in 4809 patients." Br J Clin Pract 48 (1994): 293-8
10. Lehtonen A, et al "Doxazosin effects on insulin and glucose in hypertensive patients." Am Heart J 121 (1991): 1307-11
11. Torvik D, Madsbu HP "An open one-year comparison of doxazosin and prazosin for mild to moderate essential hypertension." Am J Cardiol 59 (1987): g68-72
12. Gillenwater JY, Conn RL, Chrysant SG, Roy J, Gaffney M, Ice K, Dias N "Doxazosin for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia in patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension: a double-blind, placebo-controlled dose-response multicenter study." J Urol 154 (1995): 110-5
13. Ahaneku JE, Taylor OG, Walker D, Agbedana OE, Salako LA "Blood pressure and biochemical changes during doxazosin monotherapy in nigerian hypertensive patients." Curr Ther Res Clin Exp 55 (1994): 1067-74
14. Scott PJ, Hosie J, Scott MG "A double-blind and cross-over comparison of once daily doxazosin and placebo with steady-state pharmacokinetics in elderly hypertensive patients." Eur J Clin Pharmacol 34 (1988): 119-23
15. Stoschitzky K,  Stoschitzky G,  Wonisch M,  Brussee H "Differential effects of urapidil and doxazosin on heart rate." Eur J Clin Pharmacol 63 (2007): 259-62
16. Kazumi T, Shima F, Hotta K, Hozumi T, Ishida Y, Yoshino G "Effects of doxazosin on blood pressure and serum lipid levels in hypertensive patients." Curr Ther Res Clin Exp 55 (1994): 843-50
17. Troffa C, Manunta P, Dessifulgheri P, Pazzola A, Sabino G, Patteri G, Tonolo G, Pupita G, Glorioso N, Gitti M, Rappelli A "Efficacy and tolerability of doxazosin alone or in combination with chlorthalidone in essential hypertension." Curr Ther Res Clin Exp 55 (1994): 22-31
18. Takata Y, Yoshizumi T, Ito Y, Hirota Y, Fujishima M "Effect of administration and withdrawal of doxazosin on ambulatory blood pressure in patients with essential hypertension." Angiology 46 (1995): 11-8
19. Fawzy A, Braun K, Lewis GP, Gaffney M, Ice K, Dias N "Doxazosin in the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia in normotensive patients: a multicenter study." J Urol 154 (1995): 105-9
20. Fulton B, Wagstaff J, Sorkin EM "Doxazosin: an update of its clinical pharmacology and therapeutic applications in hypertension and benign prostatic hyperplasia." Drugs 49 (1995): 295-320
21. Messerli FH "Implications of discontinuation of doxazosin arm of ALLHAT (Vol 355, pg 863, 1920)." Lancet 355 (2000): 1280
22. Levy D, Walmsley P, Levenstein M "Principal results of the hypertension and lipid trial (HALT): a multicenter study of doxazosin in patients with hypertension." Am Heart J 131 (1996): 966-73
23. "Product Information. Cardura (doxazosin)." Pfizer US Pharmaceuticals, New York, NY. 
24. Avisrror MU, Fernandez IA, Sanchez AS, Garcia-Pando AC, Arias LM, Del Pozo JG "Doxazosin and priapism." J Urol 163 (2000): 238
25. Grimm RH, Granditis GA, Prineas RJ, et al. "Long-term effects on sexual function of five antihypertensive drugs and nutritional hygienic treatment in hypertensive men and women: treatment of mild hypertension study (TOMHS)." Hypertension 29 (1997): 8-14
26. Evans M, Perera PW, Donoghue J "Drug induced psychosis with doxazosin." BMJ 314 (1997): 1869
Not all side effects for doxazosin may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Dizziness or lightheadedness


Blurred vision
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position
fainting (sudden)
fast and pounding heartbeat
irregular heartbeat
shortness of breath
 sweating
swelling of feet or lower legs


Painful or prolonged erection of the penis (called priapism), although extremely rare, must have immediate medical attention. If painful or prolonged erection occurs, call your doctor or go to an emergency room as soon as possible


Abdominal or stomach pain
area rash 
black, tarry stools
 bleeding gums
blood in urine or stools
chest pain or discomfort
chills
clay-colored stools
cough
dark urine
diarrhea
 difficulty breathing
difficult, burning, or painful urination
fever
general tiredness and weakness
headache, sudden and severe 
inability to speak
itching 
lab results that show problems with liver
light-colored stools
loss of appetite 
noisy breathing
pain or discomfort in arms, jaw, back or neck
pinpoint red or purple spots on skin
rash
 seizures
slow or irregular heartbeat
slurred speech
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on lips or in mouth
swollen glands
temporary blindness 
tightness in chest
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
upper right abdominal pain
vomiting 
vomiting of blood
weakness in arm and/or leg on one side of the body, sudden and severe
wheezing
yellow eyes and skin


Headache
lack or loss of strength
unusual tiredness or weakness


Acid or sour stomach
back pain
belching
bladder pain
cloudy urine
difficulty in moving
frequent urge to urinate
heartburn 
indigestion
joint pain 
lower back or side pain
 muscle aching, cramping, or weakness
muscle pains or stiffness
nausea
nervousness, restlessness, unusual irritability
runny nose
sleepiness or drowsiness
sneezing
sore throat
stomach discomfort, upset or pain
swollen joints


Anxiety
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, “pins and needles”, or tingling feeling
change in frequency or urination
dry mouth
feeling of warmth
 frequent urination
general feeling of discomfort or illness
hair loss
 hives or welts
hyperventilation
 increased urge to urinate during the night
increased volume of pale dilute urine
loss of appetite
painful urination
redness of skin
redness of the face, neck, arms and occasionally upper chest 
shaking
swelling of the breasts or breast soreness in both females and males
 thinning of hair
trouble in holding or releasing urine
trouble sleeping
 waking to urinate at night
weight loss

