Generic Name: bazedoxifene / conjugated estrogens
More frequent side effects include: diarrhea, dizziness, muscle spasm, and nausea.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to bazedoxifene / conjugated estrogens: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by bazedoxifene / conjugated estrogens. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking bazedoxifene / conjugated estrogens:
Some of the side effects that can occur with bazedoxifene / conjugated estrogens may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to bazedoxifene / conjugated estrogens: oral tablet
Frequency not reported: Venous thromboembolism, deep vein thrombosis[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, diarrhea, dyspepsia, upper abdominal pain[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Muscle spasms, neck pain[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Dizziness[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Retinal vein thrombosis[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Oropharyngeal painFrequency not reported: Pulmonary embolism[Ref]
The most common side effect were muscle spasms, nausea, diarrhea, dyspepsia, upper abdominal pain, oropharyngeal pain, dizziness, and neck pain.
1. "Product Information. Duavee (bazedoxifene-conjugated estrogens)." Pfizer U.S. Pharmaceuticals Group, New York, NY. 
Not all side effects for Duavee may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Acid or sour stomach
anxiety
backache
belching
bloating
change in vaginal discharge
chest pain
chills
clear or bloody discharge from the nipple
confusion
constipation
cough
darkened urine
difficulty with speaking
dimpling of the breast skin
dizziness or lightheadedness
double vision
fainting
fast heartbeat
fever
full or bloated feeling or pressure in the stomach
headache
heartburn
inability to move the arms, legs, or facial muscles
inability to speak
indigestion
inverted nipple
loss of appetite
lump in the breast or under the arm
nausea
pain or feeling of pressure in the pelvis
pain, redness, or swelling in the arm or leg
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
persistent crusting or scaling of the nipple
redness or swelling of the breast
slow speech
sore on the skin of the breast that does not heal
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
sudden shortness of breath or troubled breathing
swelling of the abdominal or stomach area
vaginal bleeding
vomiting
yellow eyes or skin


Diarrhea
muscle spasm
throat pain
upper abdominal or stomach pain


Neck pain

