If any of the following side effects occur while taking bethanechol, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Adverse reactions occur more commonly following subcutaneous administration of bethanechol (the active ingredient contained in Duvoid) than with oral administration.Cholinergic overstimulation with symptoms of circulatory collapse, fall in blood pressure, abdominal cramps, bloody diarrhea, shock, or sudden cardiac arrest has been reported rarely with subcutaneous administration of bethanechol.  Atropine sulfate should be available to treat symptoms of toxicity when bethanechol is administered subcutaneously.  The adult dose of atropine is 0.6 mg administered subcutaneously every 2 hours, according to patient response.
Cardiovascular side effects have included decreased blood pressure with reflex tachycardia and vasomotor response.
Nervous system side effects have included headache and seizure.  Hypothermia has been reported.  An acute dystonic reaction associated with the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux during bethanechol (the active ingredient contained in Duvoid) therapy in an infant has been reported.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included abdominal cramps, colicky pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, salivation, and borborygmi.
Ocular side effects have included lacrimation and miosis.
Renal side effects have included urinary urgency.
Respiratory side effects have included aggravation of asthma and bronchial constriction.
Dermatologic side effects have included warmth/heat, flushing, and sweating.  A case of miliaria crystallina associated with the use of bethanechol (the active ingredient contained in Duvoid) in a diabetic patient with autonomic bladder neuropathy has been reported.
Shortness of breath, wheezing, or tightness in chest
Belching
 blurred vision or change in near or distance vision
 diarrhea
dizziness or lightheadedness
feeling faint
frequent urge to urinate 
headache
increased watering of mouth or sweating
nausea or vomiting
redness or flushing of skin or feeling of warmth
seizures
sleeplessness, nervousness, or jitters
stomach discomfort or pain