Isradipine (the active ingredient contained in Dynacirc) is generally well-tolerated.  Most side effects occurred as commonly as with placebo in placebo-controlled trials, except for flushing, headache, and palpitations.
Cardiovascular side effects are among the most common, and are related to the vasodilatory properties of isradipine (the active ingredient contained in Dynacirc)   Peripheral edema and flushing are reported in 3% to 14% of patients, being more common at higher doses.  Dizziness occurs in 3% to 8% of patients.
Palpitations or a greater awareness of heart beats is reported in 1% to 5% of patients.  Flushing and palpitations are more likely with dosages greater than 5 mg daily; women have reported flushing more than men.  Edema was reported in up to 22% of patients in one study (mean dose was 5.9 mg TID).  In large studies, the incidence of edema is less than 3%, and appeared to be more likely in patients greater than 60 years of age.Isradipine does not appear to adversely affect plasma lipids.
Headache was reported in up to 16% of patients in one study, although the mean dose was 5.9 mg three times daily to treat angina pectoris.  Headache is more likely with dosages greater than 5 mg daily.  Visual disturbances are reported in less than 2% of patients.  Sleep disturbances are reported in 0.1% of patients.
Nervous system side effects are probably related to the vasodilatory effects of isradipine.  Headache is reported in 9% to 30% of patients and fatigue is reported in 7% of patients.
Anorexia, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea are reported in less than 4% of patients.
Gastrointestinal side effects are unusual, and include constipation in less than 2% of patients.
Respiratory system complaints include dyspnea and cough in 2% of patients.
Musculoskeletal pain is reported in 1% of patients.
Dermatologic complaints of "disturbed skin sensation" are reported in less than 4% of patients.
Hypersensitivity reactions to isradipine (the active ingredient contained in Dynacirc) are rare.  Pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema have been reported.
Bloating or swelling of face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
tingling of hands or feet
unusual weight gain or loss
Chest pain
difficult or labored breathing
dizziness
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
feeling of warmth
full or bloated feeling
nausea
pressure in the stomach
redness of the face, neck, arms and occasionally, upper chest
shortness of breath
swelling of abdominal or stomach area
tightness in chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
wheezing
Blurred vision
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly
flushing
sweating
Headache
Diarrhea
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
rash
stomach soreness or discomfort