Generic Name: barium sulfate
Applies to barium sulfate: cream, enema, kit, liquid, paste, powder for suspension, suspension, tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by barium sulfate (the active ingredient contained in E-Z-Cat). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking barium sulfate, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with barium sulfate may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to barium sulfate: compounding powder, oral capsule, oral cream, oral paste, oral powder for reconstitution, oral suspension, oral tablet, oral and rectal powder for reconstitution, oral and rectal suspension, rectal powder for reconstitution, rectal suspension
General side effects including severe reactions (approximately 1 in 1,000,000) and fatalities (approximately 1 in 10,000,000) have been reported.[Ref]
Other side effects caused by procedural complications have been rare.  Procedural complications have included aspiration pneumonitis, barium impaction, granuloma formation, intravasation, embolization and peritonitis following intestinal perforation, vasovagal and syncopal episodes, and fatalities.[Ref]
It is of the utmost importance to be completely prepared to treat any EKG changes.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects including EKG changes have been reported following or during barium enema procedures.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal cramping accompanying the use of barium sulfate (the active ingredient contained in E-Z-Cat) formulations have been infrequent and usually mild.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Readi-Cat 2 (barium sulfate)." E-Z-EM Inc, Lake Success, NY. 
2. "Product Information. E-Z-Cat (barium sulfate)." E-Z-EM Inc, Lake Success, NY. 
Not all side effects for E-Z-Cat may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bloating
constipation (severe, continuing)
cramping (severe)
nausea or vomiting
stomach pain
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing


Anxiety
blood in the stools
blood in the urine
blurred vision
bruising
chest pain
confusion
cough
coughing or vomiting blood
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fainting
fast heartbeat
hives or welts, itching, or skin rash
noisy breathing
persistent bleeding or oozing from puncture sites, mouth, or nose
redness of the skin
sudden shortness of breath or troubled breathing
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness


Constipation or diarrhea
cramping

