Generic Name: epinastine ophthalmic
Applies to epinastine ophthalmic: ophthalmic solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by epinastine ophthalmic (the active ingredient contained in Elestat). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking epinastine ophthalmic:
Some of the side effects that can occur with epinastine ophthalmic may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to epinastine ophthalmic: ophthalmic solution
The most common ocular side effects reported were a burning sensation following instillation, folliculosis, hyperemia, and pruritus of the eye.[Ref]
Common: Burning, irritation, pruritusUncommon: Hyperemia, discharge, dryness, visual disturbancePostmarketing reports: Increased lacrimation, eye pain[Ref]
Uncommon: Asthma, nasal irritation, rhinitis[Ref]
Uncommon: Headache, dysgeusia[Ref]
1. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
2. "Product Information. Elestat (epinastine ophthalmic)." Allergan Inc, Irvine, CA. 
Not all side effects for Elestat may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Burning sensation in the eye
increase in blood flow to the whites of the eyes
redness, itching, pain, swelling, or other irritation of the eye


Body aches or pain
chills
cough
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
fever
headache
loss of voice
nasal congestion
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness


Congestion
hoarseness
increased cough
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
shortness of breath
stuffy nose
tender, swollen glands in the neck
tightness of the chest or wheezing
trouble with swallowing
troubled breathing
voice changes

