Generic Name: permethrin topical
More frequent side effects include: local pruritus.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to permethrin topical: topical cream, topical liquid, topical lotion, topical spray
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by permethrin topical (the active ingredient contained in Elimite). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
Some of the side effects that can occur with permethrin topical may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to permethrin topical: topical cream, topical kit, topical lotion, topical solution, topical spray
Local side effects have included mild and transient burning and stinging usually associated with the severity of infestation.[Ref]
Dermatological side effects have included pruritus (7%), erythema (1% to 2%), and rash (1% to 2%).[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included numbness and tingling (1% to 2%).  Headache and dizziness have also been reported.  Rare occurrences of seizure have been reported;  however, an association with the use of permethrin topical (the active ingredient contained in Elimite) has not been confirmed.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included abdominal pain, diarrhea, and nausea and/or vomiting.[Ref]
General side effects have included fever.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Elimite (permethrin topical)." Allergan Inc, Irvine, CA. 
Not all side effects for Elimite may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Burning, itching, numbness, rash, redness, stinging, swelling, or tingling of the scalp

