Generic Name: pentosan polysulfate sodium
Applies to pentosan polysulfate sodium: oral capsule
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by pentosan polysulfate sodium (the active ingredient contained in Elmiron). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking pentosan polysulfate sodium, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some of the side effects that can occur with pentosan polysulfate sodium may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to pentosan polysulfate sodium: oral capsule
Gastrointestinal side effects have been reported the most frequently.  These have included nausea, diarrhea, dyspepsia, vomiting, and rectal hemorrhage.[Ref]
In a phase 4 study of patients with interstitial cystitis (n=380) taking pentosan polysulfate sodium, the incidence of rectal hemorrhage was reported at 15% in patients taking doses of 900 mg/day versus 6.3% in patients taking the recommended daily dosage of 300 mg/day.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included alopecia, pruritus, and urticaria.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included headache (3%) and dizziness (1%).  Hyperkinesia, insomnia, and depression have also been reported.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included anemia, ecchymosis, increased prothrombin time, increased partial thromboplastin time, and thrombocytopenia.[Ref]
There have been case reports of thrombocytopenia similar to heparin induced thrombocytopenia associated with a parenteral form of pentosan polysulfate sodium.  It should be used with caution in patients with a history of heparin induced thrombocytopenia.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included liver function abnormalities: mildly elevated (<2.5 normal) transaminase, alkaline phosphatase, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, and lactic dehydrogenase.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included pharyngitis, rhinitis, epistaxis, and dyspnea.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have included conjunctivitis, optic neuritis, amblyopia, and retinal hemorrhage.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included allergic reactions and photosensitivity.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Elmiron (pentosan polysulfate sodium)." Baker Norton Pharmaceuticals, Miami, FL. 
2. Wedren H "Effects of sodium pentosanpolysulphate on symptoms related to chronic non-bacterial prostatitis. A double-blind randomized study." Scand J Urol Nephrol 21 (1987): 81-8
3. Mulholland SG, Hanno P, Parsons CL, Sant GR, Staskin DR "Pentosan polysulfate sodium for therapy of interstitial cystitis. A double-blind placebo-controlled clinical study." Urology 35 (1990): 552-8
4. Sie P, Albarede JL, Robert M, Bouloux C, Lansen J, Chigot C, Correll S, Thouvenot JP, Boneu B "Tolerance and biological activity of pentosan polysulfate after intramuscular or subcutaneous administration for ten days in human volunteers." Thromb Haemost 55 (1986): 86-9
5. Goad KE, Horne MK 3rd, Gralnick HR "Pentosan-induced thrombocytopenia: support for an immune complex mechanism." Br J Haematol 88 (1994): 803-8
6. Tardy-Poncet B, Tardy B, Grelac F, Reynaud J, Mismetti P, Bertrand JC, Guyotat D "Pentosan polysulfate-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis." Am J Hematol 45 (1994): 252-7
Not all side effects for Elmiron may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Chills
difficulty in breathing
fever
skin rash or hives
sore throat
unusual bleeding or bruising 
unusual tiredness or weakness
vision impairment


Abdominal pain
bleeding gums
constipation
diarrhea
difficulty or pain upon swallowing
dizziness
dryness of throat
hair loss
headache
heartburn
increased sensitivity of skin to sunlight
irritated or red eyes
itching
loss of appetite
nausea
nosebleed
ringing in the ears
runny nose
sores in mouth
stomach gas
stomach upset
vomiting

