Generic Name: mometasone topical
Applies to mometasone topical: topical application cream, topical application lotion, topical application ointment, topical application solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by mometasone topical (the active ingredient contained in Elocon). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking mometasone topical:
Some of the side effects that can occur with mometasone topical may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to mometasone topical: topical cream, topical lotion, topical ointment, topical solution
The most commonly reported side effects were shininess, telangiectasia, loss of elasticity, loss of normal skin markings, thinness, and folliculitis.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Shininess, telangiectasia, loss of elasticity, loss of normal skin markings, thinness, folliculitisUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Papular and pustular formationsFrequency not reported: Acneiform reactions, furunculosis, skin atrophy, unspecified skin disorder, bacterial skin infection, hypertrichosis, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, secondary infection, striae, miliaria, rosacea[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Erythema, abscess, increased lesion size, pimplesFrequency not reported: Burning, pruritus, tingling/stinging, irritation, dryness, itching, application site pain, application site reactions[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Paraesthesia, intracranial hypertension (including bulging fontanelles, headaches, bilateral papilledema)[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hyperglycemia, glucosuria[Ref]
1. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
3. "Product Information. Elocon (mometasone topical)." Schering Corporation, Kenilworth, NJ. 
Not all side effects for Elocon may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Burning
itching
thinning of the skin with easy bruising, especially when used on the face or where the skin folds together (e.g. between the fingers)


Dryness
irritation
redness and scaling around the mouth


Acne or pimples
burning, itching, and pain in hairy areas, or pus at the root of the hair
dry mouth
loss of elasticity
loss of normal skin markings
raised, dark red, and wart-like spots on the skin, especially when used on the face
shininess


Burning and itching of the skin with pinhead-sized red blisters
increased hair growth on the forehead, back, arms, and legs
lightening of normal skin color
lightening of treated areas of dark skin
reddish purple lines on the arms, face, legs, trunk, or groin

