More frequently reported side effects include: abdominal pain, constipation, lower abdominal pain, nausea, upper abdominal pain, and vomiting.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
The most commonly reported adverse reactions included constipation, nausea, and abdominal pain.
Common (1% to 10%): Constipation, nausea, abdominal pain, vomiting, abdominal distention, flatulence, viral gastroenteritisUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Sphincter of Oddi spasm, pancreatitisFrequency not reported: Gastroesophageal reflux disease
Sphincter of Oddi spasm occurred in 0.2% (n=807) and 0.8% (n=1032) of patients receiving 75 mg and 100 mg twice a day, respectively.  Sphincter of Oddi spasm manifested as abdominal pain with lipase elevation of less than 3 times the upper limit of normal in 1 patient, and elevated hepatic enzymes associated with abdominal pain in the second patient.  For the 8 patients taking 100 mg twice a day, sphincter of Oddi spasm manifested in 1 patient as pancreatitis and as elevated hepatic enzymes associated with abdominal pain in the other 7 patients.  Of 1317 patients with a gallbladder, no patients experienced a sphincter of Oddi spasm, while 2 of 165 patients and 8 of 184 patients in the 75 mg and 100 mg twice a day groups, respectively, experienced sphincter of Oddi spasm.  Onset of symptoms occurred within the first week in 80% (8 of 10) of patients and no cases occurred greater than 1 month after treatment onset.  The 1 case of sphincter of Oddi spasm-induced pancreatitis occurred within minutes of taking the first dose of the drug and resolved within 24 hours of discontinuation.Pancreatitis not associated with sphincter of Oddi spasm was reported in 0.2% (n=807) and 0.3% (n=1032) of patients receiving 75 mg and 100 mg twice a day, respectively.  Of these 5 cases, 3 were associated with excessive alcohol intake, 1 with biliary sludge, and 1 was reported 2 weeks after the patient discontinued therapy.  All resolved within 1 week of therapy discontinuation.Constipation was the most commonly reported adverse event in clinical trials with 50% of case reported within the first 2 weeks, and the majority within the first 3 months.  Rates of severe constipation were less than 1%.  After 3 months, the incidence of constipation was similar across active treatment and placebo groups.  Gastroesophageal reflux disease was reported in 2% or less of patients in clinical trials.
Increased AST was reported in 2% or less of patients in clinical trials.
Frequency not reported: Increased AST
Common (1% to 10%): Upper respiratory tract infection, nasopharyngitis, bronchitisFrequency not reported: Asthma, bronchospasm, respiratory failure, wheezing
Asthma, bronchospasm, respiratory failure, and wheezing were reported in 2% or less of patients in clinical trials.
Common (1% to 10%): Rash
Rash included terms such as dermatitis, dermatitis allergic, rash, rash erythematous, rash generalized, rash maculopapular, rash popular, rash pruritic, urticaria, and idiopathic urticaria.
Common (1% to 10%): DizzinessFrequency not reported: Sedation, somnolence
Sedation and somnolence was reported in 2% or less of patients in clinical trials.
Euphoric mood was reported in 2% or less of patients in clinical trials.
Frequency not reported: Euphoric mood
Feeling drunk was reported in 2% or less of patients in clinical trials.
Common (1% to 10%): FatigueFrequency not reported: Feeling drunk
Bloating
chills
constipation
darkened urine
fast heartbeat
fever
indigestion
loss of appetite
nausea
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
vomiting
yellow eyes or skin
Body aches or pain
chills
cough
cough producing mucus
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
fever
full feeling
headache
loss of voice
muscle aches
passing gas
pressure in the stomach
rash
sneezing
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
swelling of abdominal or stomach area
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness