Generic Name: lidocaine / prilocaine topical
Common side effects of Emla include: localized blanching and localized erythema. Other side effects include: local alterations in temperature sensations.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to lidocaine / prilocaine topical: topical application cream, topical application film, topical application kit
Other dosage forms:
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by lidocaine / prilocaine topical. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking lidocaine / prilocaine topical:
Some of the side effects that can occur with lidocaine / prilocaine topical may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to lidocaine / prilocaine topical: topical cream, topical film, topical kit
Local side effects have included erythema, edema, and abnormal sensation.  Local effects observed in the trials of the cream on intact skin have included paleness (37%), erythema (30%), alterations in temperature sensations (7%), edema (6%), itching (2%), and rash (<1%).  The most commonly reported local side effects in clinical studies on genital mucous membranes were redness (21%), burning sensation (17%), and edema (10%).[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included bradycardia, hypotension, and cardiovascular collapse leading to arrest.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included CNS excitation and/or depression.  Excitatory CNS reactions may be brief or not occur at all.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included angioedema, bronchospasm, and shock.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included urticaria.  The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Emla Cream (lidocaine-prilocaine)" Astra-Zeneca Pharmaceuticals, Wayne, PA. 
Not all side effects for Emla may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
gingival gel/jelly

Cough
difficulty with swallowing
large, hive-like swellings on the eyelids, face, lips, or tongue
severe dizziness or feeling faint
shortness of breath
skin rash, itching, or hives
stuffy nose
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing
wheezing


Blisters on skin at application site
blue or blue-purple color of lips, fingernails, mouth, or skin
blurred or double vision
convulsions
dark urine
dizziness or drowsiness
fainting
feeling hot, cold, or numb
headache
irregular or fast heartbeat
muscle twitching or trembling
nausea or vomiting
ringing or buzzing in the ears
shortness of breath or troubled breathing
unusual excitement, nervousness, or restlessness
unusual tiredness or weakness


Burning, swelling, itching, or skin rash at application site
white or red skin at the application site

