Generic Name: selegiline
Common side effects of Emsam include: application site reaction and insomnia. Other side effects include: skin rash, weight loss, and orthostatic hypotension.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to selegiline: oral capsule, oral tablet, oral tablet disintegrating
Other dosage forms:
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by selegiline (the active ingredient contained in Emsam). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking selegiline:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking selegiline, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with selegiline may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to selegiline: compounding powder, oral capsule, oral tablet, oral tablet disintegrating, transdermal film extended release
In prospective pre-marketing studies, the most commonly reported side effects leading to treatment discontinuation with selegiline (the active ingredient contained in Emsam) oral tablets were, in decreasing order of frequency, nausea, hallucinations, confusion, depression, loss of balance, insomnia, orthostatic hypotension, increased akinetic involuntary movements, agitation, arrhythmia, bradykinesia, chorea, delusions, hypertension, new or increased angina pectoris, and syncope.In clinical trials with selegiline orally disintegrating tablets, the most commonly reported side effects leading to treatment discontinuation were dizziness, chest pain, accidental injury, and myasthenia.  The relative risk for treatment-emergent hypertension and orthostatic or postural hypotension was reported as being at least 2 fold greater in patients 65 years or older compared to those younger than 65 years.  Patients over 65 years were also reported at an increased risk for somnolence compared to younger patients.In clinical trials with selegiline transdermal patches, application site reaction was reported as the side effect that lead to treatment discontinuation in at least 1% of patients at a rate at least twice that of placebo.Selegiline potentiates the effects of levodopa; therefore, the side effects of levodopa may be emphasized unless the levodopa dose is reduced.[Ref]
Insomnia and sleep disorder were reported as very common side effects with selegiline (the active ingredient contained in Emsam) in double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trials at a higher frequency when used as adjunctive therapy with levodopa in the earlier phases of Parkinson's disease.  Insomnia was also reported as a very common side effect in placebo-controlled clinical trials for major depressive disorder with transdermal selegiline.Parkinson's disease patients treated with dopamine agonists and/or other dopaminergic treatments such as selegiline have been reported as exhibiting impulse control disorders such as pathological gambling, increased libido, hypersexuality, compulsive spending/buying, and binge eating.  There have been very few cases reported with selegiline.  In some cases, dose reduction or treatment discontinuation led to cessation of impulse control disorders.Postmarketing reports have indicated that patients taking this drug may experience new or worsening mental status and behavioral changes, such as psychotic-like behavior, particularly after starting therapy or increasing the dose.  Certain medications used to treat psychosis (e.g., dopamine antagonists) may exacerbate the symptoms of Parkinson's disease and may decrease the effectiveness of selegiline.  Transient high and bruxism were reported at doses greater than 10 mg per day.Anxiety was reported as a very common side effect with selegiline in double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trials when used as adjunctive therapy with levodopa in the earlier phases of Parkinson's disease.Antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment.  An increased risk of suicidal thinking and behavior in children, adolescents, and young adults (aged 18 to 24 years) with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders has been reported with short-term use of antidepressant drugs.Adult and pediatric patients receiving antidepressants for MDD, as well as for psychiatric and nonpsychiatric indications, have reported symptoms that may be precursors to emerging suicidality, including anxiety, agitation, panic attacks, insomnia, irritability, hostility, aggressiveness, impulsivity, akathisia, hypomania, and mania.  Causality has not been established.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): InsomniaCommon (1% to 10%): Anxiety/tension, confusion, depression, euphoria, hallucinations, illusion, sleeping disorders, vivid dreamsUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Abnormal dreams, agitation, manic reaction, mild transient irritability, mood change, psychosesFrequency not reported: Apathy, delusions, disorientation, dreams/nightmares, hollow feeling, overstimulation, personality change, sleep disturbance, transient high, transient irritabilityPostmarketing reports: Abnormal thinking, aggressive reaction, bruxism, delirium, impulse control disorders and compulsions, nervousness, paranoid reaction, paroniria, psychotic-like behavior[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Dizziness/lightheadedness/faintingCommon (1% to 10%): Abnormal movements (e.g., dyskinesias, bradykinesia, akinesia), ataxia, headache, impaired balance, lethargy, somnolence, syncope, tremorFrequency not reported: Chorea, drowsiness, dyskinesia, dystonic symptoms, facial grimace, festination, impaired memory, increased apraxia, involuntary movements, migraine, myoclonic jerks, numbness of toes/fingers, restlessness, speech affected, supraorbital pain, tardive dyskinesiaPostmarketing reports: Abnormal gait, cerebrovascular disorder, coma, convulsions, hypertonia, involuntary muscle contractions, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, serotonin syndrome, taste disturbance[Ref]
There have been reports of falling asleep while engaged in activities of daily living, including the operation of motor vehicles, which sometimes resulted in accidents, in Parkinson's disease patients treated with this drug.  These reports have occurred in a setting of pre-existing somnolence.Impaired memory and myoclonic jerks were reported at doses greater than 10 mg per day.  Seizure in dialyzed chronic renal failure in a patient treated with selegiline on concomitant medications has been reported in postmarketing experience.A symptom complex resembling the neuroleptic malignant syndrome, with no other obvious etiology, has been reported in association with rapid dose reduction, withdrawal of, or changes in, antiparkinson therapy.There have been postmarketing reports of fatal and non-fatal cases of serotonin syndrome with concomitant use of this drug with antidepressants.Headache was reported as a very common side effect in placebo-controlled clinical trials for major depressive disorder with transdermal selegiline.[Ref]
This drug inhibits the catabolism of dietary amines such as tyramine, and has the potential to produce a hypertensive crisis following the ingestion of tyramine-rich foods or beverages.Postural hypotension was reported with selegiline (the active ingredient contained in Emsam) in double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trials at a higher frequency when used as adjunctive therapy with levodopa in the earlier phases of Parkinson's disease compared to the late phase.  Palpitation was also reported as a very common side effect in the earlier phases of Parkinson's disease in these trials.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Postural hypotensionCommon (1% to 10%): Arrhythmia, bradycardia, chest pain, hypertension, hypotension, edema, palpitationsUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Angina pectoris, ankle edema, orthostatic hypotension, supraventricular tachycardiaFrequency not reported: Peripheral edema, hematoma, tachycardiaPostmarketing reports: Flushing, myocardial infarction[Ref]
Constipation was reported as a very common side effect with selegiline (the active ingredient contained in Emsam) in double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trials when used as adjunctive therapy with levodopa in the earlier phases of Parkinson's disease.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Dry mouth, irritation of the buccal mucosa (orally disintegrating tablet), mouth ulceration, nausea, stomatitisCommon (1% to 10%): Abdominal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, dysphagia, eructation, flatulence, gastric irritation, tooth disorder, vomitingFrequency not reported: Gastrointestinal bleeding (exacerbation of pre-existing ulcer disease), heartburn, rectal bleeding, throat burning[Ref]
Increased energy was reported at doses greater than 10 mg per day.Vertigo was a very common side effect reported with selegiline (the active ingredient contained in Emsam) in double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trials when used as adjunctive therapy with levodopa compared with its use as monotherapy.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): FatigueCommon (1% to 10%): Fall, pain, vertigoFrequency not reported: Chills, generalized ache, falling down, freezing, heavy leg, increased energy, malaise, tinnitus, tiredness, weaknessPostmarketing reports: Asthenia, death, fever[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): RashCommon (1% to 10%): Ecchymosis, increased sweating, skin disordersUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Hair loss, skin eruptionsFrequency not reported: Facial hair, photosensitivity[Ref]
Skin disorders reported with this drug have included skin ulcer, fungal dermatitis, skin hypertrophy, contact dermatitis, herpes simplex, dry skin, sweating, urticaria, and pruritus.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Micturition disorderCommon (1% to 10%): Urinary retentionFrequency not reported: Hypersexuality, nocturia, penile sensation, prostatic hypertrophy, sexual dysfunction, slow urination, transient anorgasmia, urinary frequency, urinary hesitancyPostmarketing reports: Increased libido[Ref]
Transient anorgasmia and decreased penile sensation were reported at doses greater than 10 mg per day.  The estimates of the incidence of untoward sexual experience and performance may also underestimate their actual incidence, partly because patients and physicians may be reluctant to discuss this issue.[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Leucocytopenia, thrombocytopenia[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): ALT/AST increasedUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Transient increase in liver enzyme values[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Application site reactions (transdermal patch)[Ref]
Application site reactions with the transdermal patch were primarily described as erythema and resolved spontaneously with no treatment.[Ref]
The 1.25 mg orally disintegrating tablet contains 1.25 mg phenylalanine.Anorexia was reported as a very common side effect with selegiline (the active ingredient contained in Emsam) in double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trials when used as adjunctive therapy with levodopa in the earlier phases of Parkinson's disease.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): AnorexiaCommon (1% to 10%): Hypokalemia, weight lossUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Loss of appetitePostmarketing reports: Hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia[Ref]
Muscle twitch was reported at doses greater than 10 mg per day.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Arthralgia, back pain, leg cramps, leg pain, low back pain, myalgia, musculoskeletal injuries, muscle crampsUncommon (0.1% to 1%): MyopathyFrequency not reported: Muscle twitch, stiff neckPostmarketing reports: Muscle weakness (myasthenia)[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Abnormal accommodationUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Blurred visionFrequency not reported: Blepharospasm, diplopiaPostmarketing reports: Abnormal vision[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Melanoma[Ref]
Epidemiological studies have shown that Parkinson's disease patients are at a 2- to 6-fold increased risk of developing melanoma than the general population.  It is unclear whether the observed increase in risk is due to Parkinson's disease or other factors.[Ref]
Small increments in serum BUN and creatinine were observed with high doses of orally disintegrating selegiline (the active ingredient contained in Emsam) (10 mg orally per day).[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Small increments in serum BUN and creatinine[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Dyspnea, hiccup, nasal congestion, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis, sore throatFrequency not reported: Asthma[Ref]
1. Montastruc JL, Chaumerliac C, Desboeuf K, Manika M, Bagheri H, Rascol O, LapeyreMestre M "Adverse drug reactions to selegiline: A review of the French Pharmacovigilance Database." Clin Neuropharmacol 23 (2000): 271-5
2. "Product Information. Emsam (selegiline)." Bristol-Myers Squibb, Princeton, NJ. 
3. Riley DE "Reversible transvestic fetishism in a man with Parkinson's disease treated with selegiline." Clin Neuropharmacol 25 (2002): 234-7
4. Boyson SJ "Psychiatric effects of selegiline." Arch Neurol 48 (1991): 902
5. "Product Information. Eldepryl (selegiline)." Somerset Pharmaceuticals Inc, Tampa, FL. 
6. Brodersen P, Philbert A, Gulliksen G, Stigard A "The effect of L-Deprenyl on on-off phenomena in Parkinson's disease." Acta Neurol Scand 71 (1985): 494-7
7. Kurlan R, Dimitsopulos T "Selegiline and manic behavior in Parkinson's disease." Arch Neurol 49 (1992): 1231
8. Vezina P, Mohr E, Grimes D "Deprenyl in Parkinson's disease: mechanisms, neuroprotective effect, indications and adverse effects." Can J Neurol Sci 19 (1992): 142-6
9. Menza MA, Golbe LI "Hypomania in a patient receiving deprenyl (selegiline) after adrenal- striatal implantation for Parkinson's disease." Clin Neuropharmacol 11 (1988): 549-51
10. Ito D, Amano T, Sato H, Fukuuchi Y "Paroxysmal hypertensive crises induced by selegiline in a patient with Parkinson's disease." J Neurol 248 (2001): 533-4
11. McGrath PJ, Stewart JW, Quitkin FM "A possible L-deprenyl induced hypertensive reaction." J Clin Psychopharmacol 9 (1989): 310-1
12. Sandler M, Glover V, Ashford A, Stern GM "Absence of "cheese effect" during deprenyl therapy: some recent studies." J Neural Transm 43 (1978): 209-15
13. Golbe LI "Long-term efficacy and safety of deprenyl (selegiline) in advanced Parkinson's disease." Neurology 39 (1989): 1109-11
Not all side effects for Emsam may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
transdermal patch extended release

Twitching, twisting, uncontrolled repetitive movements of the tongue, lips, face, arms, or legs


Blurred vision
bruising
chest pain
convulsions
decreased urine
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty with swallowing
discouragement
dizziness
dry mouth
feeling sad or empty
headache
increased thirst
irregular heartbeat
irritability
large, flat, blue or purplish patches in the skin
loss of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
mood changes
muscle pain or cramps
nausea or vomiting
nervousness
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
pounding in the ears
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
shakiness and unsteady walk
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
slow or fast heartbeat
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
tightness in the chest
tiredness
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination
unusual tiredness or weakness


Agitation
diarrhea
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fever
overactive reflexes
poor coordination
restlessness
shivering
sweating
talking or acting with excitement you cannot control


Agitation
chest pain
difficulty opening the mouth or lockjaw
dizziness (severe) or fainting
fast or irregular pulse (continuing)
high fever
high or low blood pressure
severe spasm where the head and heels are bent backward and the body arched forward
troubled breathing


Dry skin 
hives, itching, or skin rash
itching, scaling, severe redness, soreness, or swelling of the skin
runny nose
sneezing
stuffy nose
trouble sleeping


Acid or sour stomach
back pain
belching
bloated or full feeling
body aches or pain
congestion
cough
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
difficulty with moving
dryness or soreness of the throat
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
heartburn
hoarseness
indigestion
joint pain
leg cramps
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pains or stiffness
passing gas
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
swollen joints
tender, swollen glands in the neck
tooth problems
voice changes

