Commonly reported side effects of entacapone include: urine discoloration.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Very common (10% or more): Dyskinesia (up to 27%), hyperkinesia (10%)Common (1% to 10%): Hypokinesia, dizziness, somnolence, taste perversion, aggravated parkinsonism, dystonia, headache, tremorFrequency not reported: Falling asleep during activities of daily livingPostmarketing reports: Neuroleptic malignant syndrome
There were no cases of neuroleptic malignant syndrome during clinical trials.  Since market introduction, there have been isolated cases, especially following abrupt reduction or discontinuation of this drug and other concomitant dopaminergic drugs.
Very common (10% or more): Nausea (up to 14%), diarrhea (up to 11%)Common (1% to 10%): Abdominal pain, constipation, vomiting, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, gastrointestinal disordersVery rare (less than 0.01%): AnorexiaPostmarketing reports: Colitis
In clinical trials, diarrhea occurred in approximately 10% of patients.  It was generally mild to moderate, but in 1.3% of people it was severe.  Upon discontinuation, diarrhea generally resolved.  There have been postmarketing reports of drug-induced microscopic colitis, primarily lymphocytic colitis.
Very common (10% or more): Urine discoloration (10%)
The most commonly reported adverse reactions included dyskinesia, urine discoloration, diarrhea, nausea, hyperkinesia, abdominal pain, vomiting, and dry mouth.
Common (1% to 10%): DyspneaFrequency not reported: Pulmonary fibrosis
Common (1% to 10%): Increased sweatingRare (less than 0.1%): Erythematous, maculopapular rashVery rare (less than 0.01%): UrticariaFrequency not reported: Skin hair, beard, and nail discolorations
Common (1% to 10%): Back pain, falls, leg crampsPostmarketing reports: Rhabdomyolysis
Isolated cases of rhabdomyolysis have occurred in patients treated with this drug.  The complicated nature of these cases makes it difficult to determine the role this drug may have had.  Rhabdomyolysis has been reported secondary to severe dyskinesias or neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) in patients with Parkinson's disease.
Common (1% to 10%): Anxiety, insomnia, hallucinations, confusion, paranoiaUncommon (0.1% to 1%): AgitationFrequency not reported: Impulse control disorders including pathological gambling, increased libido, hypersexuality, compulsive spending or buying, binge eating and compulsive eating
Common (1% to 10%): Purpura, decreased hemoglobin
A clinically significant decrease in hemoglobin has been observed in 1.8% of patients.  The underlying mechanism may involve decreased absorption of iron from the gastrointestinal tract.
Common (1% to 10%): Fatigue, asthenia, pain, vertigo
The incidence of myocardial infarction and other ischemic heart disease events was 0.43% and 1.54%, respectively, in an analysis of 13 double-blind studies involving 2082 patients.
Common (1% to 10%): Ischemic heart disease events other than myocardial infarction (e.g., angina pectoris, postural hypotensionUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Myocardial infarction
Rare (less than 0.1%): Abnormal liver function testsPostmarketing reports: Hepatitis with mainly cholestatic features
Absence of or decrease in body movements
hyperactivity
increase in body movements
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
twisting
twitching
uncontrolled repetitive movements of the tongue, lips, face, arms, or legs
Cough or hoarseness
fever or chills
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
Confusion
muscle cramps
pain
shortness of breath
stiffness
unusual tiredness or weakness
Abdominal or stomach pain
constipation
diarrhea
dizziness
nausea
Acid or sour stomach
anxiety
belching
bruising
burning feeling in the chest or stomach
difficult or labored breathing
dry mouth
heartburn
indigestion
irritability
loss of strength or energy
muscle pain or weakness
passing gas
restlessness
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
small, red spots on the skin
stomach discomfort, upset, or tenderness
sweating increased
tightness in the chest
tremor
trouble sleeping
unusual or unpleasant (after) taste
unusual weak feeling