Generic Name: budesonide
Common side effects of Entocort EC include: acne vulgaris, moon face, and bruise. Other side effects include: ankle edema, and hirsutism.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to budesonide: oral capsule delayed release, oral capsule extended release, oral tablet extended release
Other dosage forms:
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by budesonide (the active ingredient contained in Entocort EC). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking budesonide:
Some of the side effects that can occur with budesonide may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to budesonide: compounding powder, inhalation powder, inhalation suspension, oral capsule extended release, oral tablet extended release, rectal foam
The most commonly reported adverse events with inhaled use have included nasopharyngitis, nasal congestion pharyngitis, rhinitis, and oral candidiasis.  Headache, nausea, abdominal pain, and fatigue have been commonly reported with oral and rectal use.  Due to the nature of its administration (inhalation, gastro-protective oral formulations, and rectal enema), it is less likely to cause systemic adverse effects associated with the use of corticosteroids.[Ref]
Epidemiological studies have shown an increased incidence of pneumonia in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) treated with inhaled corticosteroids.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Respiratory infection (up to 13%)Common (1% to 10%): Nasopharyngitis, nasal congestion, pharyngitis, allergic rhinitis, viral upper respiratory tract infection, epistaxis, cough, dysphonia, hoarsenessFrequency not reported: Bronchitis, dyspnea, pharynx disorder, pneumoniaPostmarketing reports: Throat irritation, sinusitis[Ref]
Deaths due to adrenal insufficiency have been reported in asthmatic patients during and after transferring from systemic corticosteroids to less systemically available inhaled corticosteroids.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Decreased blood cortisol, moon faceUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Hirsutism, Cushingoid syndromeFrequency not reported: Intermenstrual bleeding, menstrual disorder, HPA axis suppression, deaths due to adrenal insufficiency Postmarketing reports: Hypocorticism[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Oral candidiasis Frequency not reported: Immunosuppression, abscess[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Nausea (up to 13%); abdominal pain (21%)Common (1% to 10%): Viral gastroenteritis, upper abdominal pain, flatulence, abdominal distension, constipation, dyspepsia, vomiting, diarrhea, sore/irritated throat, dry mouth, bad taste, rectal disorder, rectal hemorrhage, ulcerative colitis, burning in the rectum or painFrequency not reported: Anus disorder, enteritis, epigastric pain, gastrointestinal fistula, glossitis, hemorrhoids, intestinal obstruction, tongue edema, tooth disorderPostmarketing reports: Pancreatitis[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Headache (up to 28%)Common (1% to 10%): DizzinessUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Disturbance of smellVery rare (less than 0.01%): Pseudotumor cerebri (including papilledema)Frequency not reported: Hyperkinesia, paresthesia, tremor, somnolencePostmarketing reports: Benign intracranial hypertension[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Mood changes, sleep changes, insomnia, Frequency not reported: AmnesiaPostmarketing reports: Psychosis, depression, aggressive reactions, irritability, nervousness, restlessness, anxiety, mood swings[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, rash, contact dermatitis, urticaria, angioedema, bronchospasm Postmarketing reports: Cough, wheezing, bronchospasm[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Arthralgia, back painVery rare (less than 0.01%): Osteoporosis, aseptic necrosis of bone (femur and head of the humerus)Frequency not reported: Bone mineral density reductions, arthritis, cramps, myalgia, growth suppression[Ref]
Long-term studies in clinical practice suggest that children treated with inhaled drug generally achieve adult height.  However, in a long-term study in which inhaled drug dose was not titrated to the lowest effective dose, children were found to be 1.2 cm shorter as adults than those randomized to placebo.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Fluid retention, palpitationUncommon (0.1% to 1%): HypertensionFrequency not reported: Tachycardia, chest pain, dependent edema, flushing[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Weight gain, increased appetite, hypokalemia[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): LeukocytosisUncommon (0.1% to 1%): AnemiaRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Eosinophilic conditions, Churg-Strauss[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): ConjunctivitisFrequency not reported: Eye abnormality, abnormal visionPostmarketing reports: Glaucoma, cataracts, increased intraocular pressure[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infection, moniliasisFrequency not reported: Dysuria, micturition frequency, nocturia[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Acne, rash, contact dermatitis, eczema, pustular rash, pruritus, purpuraVery rare (less than 0.01%): Allergic exanthema, red striae, petechiae, ecchymosis, delayed wound healingFrequency not reported: Face edema, alopecia, dermatitis, eczema, skin disorder, increased sweating, purpuraPostmarketing reports: Skin bruising[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Increase in liver enzymes[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Otitis media, fatigue, earacheFrequency not reported: Asthenia, malaise, fever, flu-like disorder, vertigo[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Pulmicort Flexhaler (budesonide)." A-S Medication Solutions, Chicago, IL. 
2. "Product Information. Pulmicort Respules (budesonide)." Astra-Zeneca Pharmaceuticals, Wayne, PA. 
3. "Product Information. Entocort EC (budesonide)." Perrigo, L. Company, Allegan, MI. 
4. "Product Information. Entocort (budesonide)." AstraZeneca Pharma Inc, Mississauga, ON. 
5. "Product Information. Uceris (budesonide)." Santarus Inc, San Diego, CA. 
Not all side effects for Entocort EC may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
inhalation aerosol liquid, inhalation aerosol powder, inhalation powder, inhalation solution, inhalation suspensionrectal foam, rectal kit

Bruising easily
chills
colds
cough or hoarseness
fever
flu-like symptoms
sneezing
sore throat


Abdominal or stomach pain
bladder pain
bleeding after defecation
bloody or cloudy urine
blurred vision
burning while urinating
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chest pain
convulsions
cough producing mucus
decreased urine
diarrhea
difficult or labored breathing
difficult or painful urination
dizziness
dry mouth
eye pain
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
feeling of warmth
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
heartburn
increase in body movements
increased thirst
increased urge to urinate during the night
irregular heartbeat
joint pain
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
mood changes
muscle aches and pains
nausea or vomiting
nervousness
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
pain or discomfort in the chest, upper stomach, or throat
pounding in the ears
rectal bleeding
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
runny nose
severe constipation
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
shivering
slow or fast heartbeat
stomach cramps
sweating
swelling of the legs and feet
swelling or puffiness of the face
tightness in the chest
trouble sleeping
uncomfortable swelling around the anus
unusual tiredness or weakness
upper abdominal or stomach pain
waking to urinate at night
weight gain
weight loss


Bulging soft spot on the head of an infant
change in the ability to see colors, especially blue or yellow
difficulty with swallowing
hives, itching, or skin rash
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue


Acid or sour stomach
belching
blemishes on the skin
heartburn
indigestion
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
pimples
rounded or moon face
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
stuffy nose


Accumulation of pus
agitation
blistering, crusting, irritation, itching, or reddening of the skin
bloated or full feeling
change in hearing
changes in vision
cracked, dry, or scaly skin
cracks in the skin at the corners of mouth
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
difficulty with moving
dizziness or lightheadedness
ear drainage
earache or pain in the ear
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
hair loss or thinning of the hair
increased appetite
increased hair growth, especially on the face
lack or loss of strength
loss of memory
muscle pains or stiffness
nervousness
pain, swelling, or redness in the joints
passing gas
pinpoint red or purple spots on the skin
pressure in the stomach
problems with memory
redness, swelling, or soreness of the tongue
sensation of spinning
skin rash
skin rash, encrusted, scaly, and oozing
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
soreness or redness around the fingernails and toenails
swelling of the abdominal or stomach area
swollen joints
uterine bleeding between menstrual periods

