Generic Name: ephedra (Not applicable.)
Brand Name: Generics only. No brands available.
This product should not be used with other stimulant products (eg, caffeine), other cough and cold products, or as a dietary supplement for the purpose of weight loss or bodybuilding. Doing so may increase your risk of unlikely but potentially fatal side effects, including stroke, heart attack, seizures, or severe mental disorders (see the Possible Side Effects section). In addition, dietary supplements containing ephedra should not exceed 8 mg as a single ephedra dose, 24 mg of ephedra per day (24 hours), or be given for longer than 7 days, as recommended by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Exceeding the recommended dose of ephedra increases your risk of the side effects noted above. For detailed information, consult your pharmacist. Check all product labels carefully to see if they contain ephedrine or ephedra/Ma-Huang, which are all very similar; do not combine these products. Read the product labeling carefully. Some products contain other ingredients that may cause serious side effects.
Respiratory conditions, including asthma, nasal swelling, and nasal congestion. It is also claimed to be a heart and nervous system stimulant. It may have other uses. Check with your pharmacist for more details regarding the particular brand you use.
Ephedra is an herbal product. It works by stimulating the nervous system, which can increase heart rate and blood pressure.
Contact your doctor or health care provider right away if any of these apply to you.
Some medical conditions may interact with ephedra. Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you have any medical conditions, especially if any of the following apply to you:
Some MEDICINES MAY INTERACT with ephedra. Tell your health care provider if you are taking any other medicines, especially any of the following:
This may not be a complete list of all interactions that may occur. Ask your health care provider if ephedra may interact with other medicines that you take. Check with your health care provider before you start, stop, or change the dose of any medicine.
Use ephedra as directed by your doctor. Check the label on the medicine for exact dosing instructions.
Ask your health care provider any questions you may have about how to use ephedra.
When used for long periods of time or at high doses, ephedra may not work as well and may require higher doses to obtain the same effect as when originally taken. This is known as TOLERANCE. Talk with your doctor if ephedra stops working well. Do not take more than prescribed.
All medicines may cause side effects, but many people have no, or minor, side effects. Check with your doctor if any of these most COMMON side effects persist or become bothersome:
Headache; irritability; stomach upset.
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; itching; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, or tongue); changes in skin appearance; changes in vision; chest pain; difficulty with urination; dizziness; fainting; fast or irregular heartbeat; loss of consciousness; mood changes; nausea; nervousness; numbness in an arm or leg; seizures; severe stomach pain; shortness of breath; slurred speech or confusion; sudden leg pain; sudden severe headache; trouble sleeping; vomiting.
This is not a complete list of all side effects that may occur. If you have questions about side effects, contact your health care provider. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. To report side effects to the appropriate agency, please read the Guide to Reporting Problems to FDA.
Contact 1-800-222-1222 (the American Association of Poison Control Centers), your local poison control center, or emergency room immediately. Symptoms may include enlarged pupils; fever; loss of consciousness; muscle spasms; nausea; rapid or irregular heartbeat; restlessness; seizures; sweating; tremor; vomiting.
Store at room temperature away from heat, moisture, and light unless otherwise directed on the package label. Do not store in the bathroom. Most herbal products are not in childproof containers. Keep ephedra out of the reach of children and away from pets.
This information is a summary only. It does not contain all information about ephedra. If you have questions about the medicine you are taking or would like more information, check with your doctor, pharmacist, or other health care provider.

you are allergic to any ingredient in ephedra
you are taking furazolidone or a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitor (eg, phenelzine)
you have pheochromocytoma (a tumor of the adrenal gland)
you are pregnant


if you are planning to become pregnant or are breast-feeding
if you are taking any prescription or nonprescription medicine, herbal preparation, or dietary supplement
if you have allergies to medicines, foods, or other substances
if you have a history of stroke, diabetes, glaucoma, high blood pressure, or seizures
if you have a history of a heart, circulatory, or thyroid condition


MAO inhibitors (eg, phenelzine) because serious side effects such as very high blood pressure may occur
Blood pressure medicines (eg, diuretics, beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme [ACE] inhibitors) because the effectiveness may be decreased by ephedra


Dosing depends on the use and the source of the product.
Use as directed on the package, unless instructed otherwise by your doctor.
Do not increase the dose, take it more frequently or use for a longer period of time than directed.
If you miss taking a dose of ephedra for 1 or more days, there is no cause for concern. If your doctor recommended that you take it, try to remember your dose every day.


This product may cause dizziness. Do not drive, operate machinery, or do anything else that could be dangerous until you know how you react to ephedra. Using this product alone, with certain other medicines, or with alcohol may lessen your ability to drive or to perform other potentially dangerous tasks.
Before you have any medical or dental treatments, emergency care, or surgery, tell the doctor or dentist that you are using ephedra.
Check with your doctor before you begin taking any new medicine, either prescription or over-the-counter, including medicine containing potassium or sodium citrate, sodium acetate, sodium bicarbonate, or sodium lactate.
Do not exceed the recommended dose of this product or take it for longer than recommended. Exceeding the recommended dose or taking for longer than recommended may be habit-forming. When used in high doses, this product may cause serious side effects, including high blood pressure, heart attack, stroke, and seizures. Do not use this product for more than 7 days at a time. Use of this product for longer than 7 days may also lead to a worsening of your condition. If used for longer than 7 days, do not suddenly stop using this product. Check with your doctor to see if a gradual reduction in dose is recommended.
This product has not been approved by the FDA as safe and effective for any medical condition. The long-term safety of herbal products is not known. Before using any alternative medicine, talk with your doctor or pharmacist.
Liquid preparations of this product may contain sugar or alcohol. If you have diabetes, a liver condition, or a history of alcohol dependence, check with your doctor or pharmacist about the use of this product.
Ephedra is not recommended for use in the ELDERLY. They may be more sensitive to the stimulant effects of ephedra and may experience difficulty sleeping.
This product is not recommended for use in CHILDREN.
PREGNANCY and BREAST-FEEDING: Do not use ephedra if you are pregnant. Do not breast-feed while taking this product.


If you have any questions about ephedra, please talk with your doctor, pharmacist, or other health care provider.
Ephedra is to be used only by the patient for whom it is prescribed. Do not share it with other people.
If your symptoms do not improve or if they become worse, check with your doctor.
Check with your pharmacist about how to dispose of unused medicine.

