Commonly reported side effects of eplerenone include: cough, diarrhea, fatigue, and flu-like symptoms.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to eplerenone: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by eplerenone. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking eplerenone:
Some of the side effects that can occur with eplerenone may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to eplerenone: oral tablet
Metabolic side effects have included hyperkalemia (>5.5 mEq/L).   Hyperkalemia was observed in 2.6% of patients with creatinine clearance greater than 100 mL/min, in 5.6% of patients with creatinine clearance of 70 to 100 mL/min, and in 10.4% of patients with creatinine clearance less than 70 mL/min.  The principal risk of eplerenone is hyperkalemia, which can result in serious, sometimes fatal arrhythmias.Other metabolic side effects have included hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia in 1% of patients.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included dizziness (3%) and headache.  In a pharmacokinetic study, headache was reported in 14% to 63% of patients.[Ref]
General side effects have included fatigue and influenza-like symptoms.[Ref]
Renal side effects have included albuminuria in 1% of patients.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included cough in 2% of patients.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea in 2% and abdominal pain in 1% of patients.[Ref]
Endocrine side effects have included gynecomastia (up to 1%) and mastodynia (up to 1.3%) of male patients.  Abnormal vaginal bleeding was reported in 2.5% of female patients.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included increases in serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and gamma glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT).[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Inspra (eplerenone)." Searle, Chicago, IL. 
2. Zillich AJ,  Carter BL "Eplerenone - a novel selective aldosterone blocker." Ann Pharmacother 36 (2002): 1567-76
3. Ravis WR,  Reid S,  Sica DA,  Tolbert DS "Pharmacokinetics of eplerenone after single and multiple dosing in subjects with and without renal impairment." J Clin Pharmacol 45 (2005): 810-21
Not all side effects for eplerenone may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Excess of cholesterol in the blood
excess of triglycerides in the blood


Abdominal or stomach pain
arm, back, or jaw pain
chest pain or discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
confusion
difficulty with breathing
dizziness
fast or irregular heartbeat
headache
irregular heartbeat
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
nausea
nervousness
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
rash
shortness of breath
sweating
vomiting
weakness or heaviness of the legs


Abnormal vaginal bleeding
breast pain
chills
cloudy urine
cough
diarrhea
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
joint pain
loss of appetite
muscle aches and pains
swelling of the breasts or breast soreness in both females and males
unusual tiredness or weakness

