Generic Name: ergotamine
Applies to ergotamine: oral tablets, rectal suppositories, sublingual tablets
Side effects include:
Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, numbness and tingling of the fingers and toes, muscle pain in the extremities, weakness in the legs.    
Applies to ergotamine: compounding powder, sublingual tablet
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.[Ref]
The valvular lesions induced by ergotamine (the active ingredient contained in Ergomar) are echocardiographically similar to those seen in rheumatic heart disease, but are more often found on the mitral and aortic valves.  A new murmur heard during ergot therapy should prompt evaluation for ergot-induced valvular disease.  Rapid discontinuation of ergot therapy may allow the murmur and valvular lesions to regress.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypertension, tachycardia, bradycardia, precordial distress, chest pain and valvular disease.  Arterial spasm, sometimes with resulting distal necrosis, has been reported rarely.  The extremities have been most frequently affected and amputation has occasionally been required.  Rare vascular side effects have included tongue necrosis, bilateral papillitis, blindness, ischemic pancreatitis, ischemic hepatitis, bowel infarction, renal arteriospasm with acute renal failure, fatal stroke, venous thrombosis, and cerebral arteriopathy.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal aches, pains, and cramps, as well as general muscular weakness, have been reported.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included drowsiness, paresthesias, headache, peripheral neuropathy, vertigo, tremor, dystonia and reflex sympathetic dystrophy.  Headaches may be a symptom of withdrawal, especially after long term use.  The headaches during ergotamine (the active ingredient contained in Ergomar) withdrawal are often subjectively different in character from the headaches that prompted ergotamine therapy.[Ref]
Other side effects including retroperitoneal fibrosis and pleuropulmonary fibrosis have been reported rarely with chronic use of ergotamine (the active ingredient contained in Ergomar) and other ergot alkaloids.[Ref]
Local side effects associated with the use of ergotamine (the active ingredient contained in Ergomar) suppositories have included solitary rectal ulcers, anovaginal fistulae, and rectovaginal fistulae.[Ref]
1. Orton DA, Richardson RJ "Ergotamine absorption and toxicity." Postgrad Med J 58 (1982): 6-11
2. "Product Information. Bellergal-S (ergotamine)." Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, NJ. 
3. Hokkanen E, Waltimo O, Kallanranta T "Toxic effects of ergotamine used for migraine." Headache 18 (1978): 95-8
4. Paraskevopoulos JA, Teasdale DE, Cuschieri RJ "Severe reversible arterial spasm with ergotamine." Br J Clin Pract 49 (1995): 214
5. Redfield MM, Nicholson WJ, Edwards WD, Tajik AJ "Valve disease associated with ergot alkaloid use: echocardiographic and pathologic correlations." Ann Intern Med 117 (1992): 50-2
6. Lepage-Savary D, Vallieres A "Ergotamine as a possible cause of retroperitoneal fibrosis." Clin Pharm 1 (1982): 179-80
7. Shpilberg O, Ehrenfeld M, Abramowich D, Samra Y, Bat L "Ergotamine-induced solitary rectal ulcer." Postgrad Med J 66 (1990): 483-5
8. Jost WH, Raulf F, Muller-Lobeck H "Anorectal ergotism. Induced by migraine therapy." Acta Neurol Scand 84 (1991): 73-4
Not all side effects for Ergomar may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
