Generic Name: estradiol
Applies to estradiol: vaginal cream, vaginal insert extended release, vaginal tablet
Other dosage forms:
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by estradiol (the active ingredient contained in Estrace). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking estradiol:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking estradiol, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with estradiol may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to estradiol: compounding powder, intramuscular solution, oral tablet, transdermal emulsion, transdermal film extended release, transdermal gel, transdermal spray, vaginal ring
Cases of oral pigmentation and ischemic colitis have been reported rarely.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, abdominal cramps, bloating and vomiting.  Some studies have demonstrated a 2 to 4 fold increase in gallbladder disease in postmenopausal women taking estrogen therapy.  Cholestatic jaundice, pancreatitis, and enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas have been reported.  Postmarketing experience with the vaginal ring has included a few cases of bowel obstruction and vaginal ring use.  Postmarketing side effects with Vivelle-Dot include nausea, vomiting, abdominal cramps, bloating, cholelithiasis and diarrhea.[Ref]
Oncologic side effects have included reports of an increased risk of endometrial carcinoma in patients with an intact uterus and less persuasively, with an increased risk of breast cancer.[Ref]
A number of studies have suggested that the risk of endometrial carcinoma is removed (or delayed) by the administration of progestins in combination with estrogen therapy.The increased risk of breast cancer due to use of estrogens is controversial.  Several studies have suggested that long-term estrogen therapy may be associated with a slightly increased risk of breast cancer.  Meta analysis of 51 studies (epidemiological data) supports a modest risk increase associated with long-term hormone replacement therapy (HRT). One study of Swedish women has reported that a 10% increase in the relative risk of breast cancer may occur and that the risk is related to increasing duration of estrogen therapy.  In that study, women with more than nine years of estrogen use had a 70% greater relative risk of breast cancer than controls.  That study, however, examined use of a variety of estrogen preparations of which estradiol was the most frequently prescribed.  In addition, women who took progestins did not demonstrate a decreased risk of breast cancer and may even have been at higher risk.The Toronto Breast Cancer Study has reported that women who receive unopposed conjugated estrogens for less than 15 years are not at increased risk of breast cancer.  In that study, an increase in the risk of breast cancer for women who used conjugated estrogens for more than 15 years was not ruled out.The Case-Control Surveillance Study has reported that there is "no evidence that the use of unopposed conjugated estrogens increases the risk of breast cancer, even after long duration of use or long latent intervals, but the possibility of a modest increase (less than a doubling) could not be excluded."Follow-up to the Nurses' Health Study of 1992 concluded, however, that there is an increased risk of breast cancer in women taking estrogen replacement therapy and that the risk is not reduced by concurrent use of progestins.  (In that study, greater risk was associated with advanced age and prolonged duration of hormonal therapy.)A study of middle-aged women in the Puget Sound area concluded that "on the whole, the use of estrogen with progestin HRT [hormone replacement therapy] does not appear to be associated with an increased risk of breast cancer in middle-aged women."A prospective cohort study (11 years) of 37,105 women by Gapstur et al evaluated the histology of the breast cancer in women who ever used HRT.   No association was found between duration of ever HRT use and the incidence of ductal carcinoma in situ or invasive ductal/lobular carcinoma.  The duration of ever HRT use was associated with risk of invasive carcinoma with a favorable prognosis (relative risk (RR) = 1.81, 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.07 to 3.07 for HRT use less than or equal to 5 yrs and RR = 2.65, CI, 1.32 to 5.23 for HRT use > 5 yrs, p = 0.005).  The relative risk of invasive carcinoma with a favorable prognosis for current users (adjusted for age and other risk factors) was 4.42, CI, 2.00 to 9.76 for  less than or equal to 5 yrs and 2.63, CI, 1.18 to 5.89 for > 5 yrs).  Risk of invasive ductal or lobular carcinoma for current users less than or equal to 5 yrs was RR = 1.38, CI, 1.03 to 1.85.[Ref]
The reported effects of estrogens on cardiovascular activity are variable.  Alterations in lipid profiles in treated women are thought to be responsible for reducing cardiovascular risks.  Data suggest estrogen use may increase blood pressure, particularly in patients receiving high doses, decrease blood pressure, or result in no change.  In addition, noncontraceptive use of estrogens in young women (particularly smokers) may substantially increase the risk of nonfatal myocardial infarction.  Other studies have concluded that no increased risk of myocardial infarction exists.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included studies suggesting that unopposed estrogen therapy decreased the risk of coronary heart disease by as much as 35%.  Combination therapy with a progestin may have also decreased coronary risk.  However, the extent of risk reduction with combination therapy has not been determined.  Data are available that suggest combination therapy does not reduce the overall rate of coronary heart disease in postmenopausal women with established coronary disease.  Postmarketing side effects with Vivelle-Dot include deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism and thrombophlebitis.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects have included reports of generally favorable alterations in plasma lipid profiles.  Specifically, increased HDL and decreased cholesterol and LDL levels have occurred.  Estrogen therapy may have led to increased serum triglyceride levels resulting in pancreatitis in patients with familial lipoprotein metabolic defects.Metabolic adverse effects such as hypercalcemia have occurred in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases.[Ref]
Endocrine side effects have included increased levels of thyroxin-binding globulin which led to increased total thyroid serum levels and a decreased in resin uptake of T3.  Free thyroid hormone levels remained unchanged.  Other endocrine effects have included decreased fasting plasma glucose.[Ref]
General side effects have included fluid retention and mastodynia.  Alterations in libido have occurred.  Postmarketing experience with the vaginal ring has included a few cases of toxic shock syndrome.  Postmarketing side effects with Vivelle-Dot include decrease in weight, reduced carbohydrate tolerance and edema.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included reports of focal nodular hyperplasia, liver cell adenomas, hepatic hemangiomas, and well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinomas.  Aggravation of porphyria has been reported.  Postmarketing side effects with Vivelle-Dot include abnormal liver function tests.[Ref]
Many of the reports of hepatic tumors have occurred in women taking long-term oral contraceptives.  However, some tumors have been reported in women taking isolated estrogen therapy.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included hypercoagulability and an increase in venous thromboembolism.[Ref]
The clinical significance of such hypercoagulability in postmenopausal women taking estrogens has not been determined.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have included alterations in corneal curvature and contact lens discomfort.  Retinal vascular thrombosis has been reported.  Postmarketing side effects with Vivelle-Dot include intolerance to contact lenses.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included reports of reactions including anaphylaxis.  Some reports have implicated the dyes contained in some conjugated estrogen formulations.  Urticaria and angioedema have also been reported.[Ref]
Postmarketing reports concerning a transdermal product (Climara) have included a few cases in which there were a combination of the symptoms of generalized hives or rash with swelling of the throat or eyelid edema.[Ref]
Other side effects have included reports of a possible increase in the risk of "fibrocystic breast disease" by as much as twofold.  Postmarketing side effects with Vivelle-Dot include breast enlargement and pain, nipple discharge, fibrocystic breast changes and breast cancer.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects have included case reports of rapid mood cycling in patients with severe depression.  Postmarketing side effects with Vivelle-Dot include nervousness, affect liability and irritability.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included dementia, dizziness, mental depression, headache, nervousness, irritability exacerbation of epilepsy and new onset or exacerbation of migraine headaches.  A case of chorea has been reported in association with estrogen therapy.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included chloasma or melasma, which did not always resolve following discontinuation of estrogen therapy.  Scalp hair loss, hirsutism, erythema nodosum, and hemorrhagic eruptions have occurred.  Postmarketing side effects with Vivelle-Dot include erythema multiforme, pruritus, purpura and rash.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included abnormal uterine bleeding and dysmenorrhea.  In some cases, this was bleeding related to endometrial carcinoma.  In addition, estrogens have increased the size of preexisting uterine leiomyomata.  Postmarketing experience with the vaginal ring has included a few cases of ring adherence to the vaginal wall, making removal difficult.  Postmarketing side effects with Vivelle-Dot include vaginal hemorrhage, abnormal withdrawal bleeding or flow, breakthrough bleeding, spotting, uterine leiomyomata, vaginitis, vaginal discharge, ovarian cancer and endometrial hyperplasia.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgias.  Postmarketing side effects with Vivelle-Dot include leg cramps.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Estrace (estradiol)." Bristol-Myers Squibb, Princeton, NJ. 
2. Nash HA, AlvarezSanchez F, Mishell DR, Fraser IS, Maruo T, Harmon TM "Estradiol-delivering vaginal rings for hormone replacement therapy." Am J Obstet Gynecol 181 (1999): 1400-6
3. Boston Collaborative Drug Surveilance Program "Surgically confirmed gallbladder disease, venous thromboembolism, and breast tumors in relation to postmenopausal estrogen therapy." N Engl J Med 290 (1974): 15-9
4. Palmer JR, Rosenberg L, Clarke EA, Miller DR, Shapiro S "Breast cancer risk after estrogen replacement therapy: results from the Toronto Breast Cancer Study." Am J Epidemiol 134 (1991): 1386-95
5. The Writing Group for the PEPI Trial "Effects of hormone replacement therapy on endometrial histology in postmenopausal women." JAMA 275 (1996): 370-5
6. Gray LA Sr, Christopherson WM, Hoover RN "Estrogens and endometrial carcinoma." Obstet Gynecol 49 (1977): 385-9
7. Colditz GA, Hankinson SE, Hunter DJ, et al. "The use of estrogens and progestins and the risk of breast cancer in postmenopausal women." N Engl J Med 332 (1995): 1589-93
8. Kaufman DW, Palmer JR, de Mouzon J, Rosenberg L, Stolley PD, Warshauer ME, Zauber AG, Shapiro S "Estrogen replacement therapy and the risk of breast cancer: results from the case-control surveillance study." Am J Epidemiol 134 (1991): 1375-85
9. Obrink A, Bunne G, Collen J, Tjernberg B "Endometrial cancer and exogenous estrogens." Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand 58 (1979): 123
10. Bergkvist L, Adami HO, Persson I, Hoover R, Schairer C "The risk of breast cancer after estrogen and estrogen-progestin replacement." N Engl J Med 321 (1989): 293-7
11. Antunes CM, Strolley PD, Rosenshein NB, Davies JL, Tonascia JA, Brown C, Burnett L, Rutledge A, Pokempner M, Garcia R "Endometrial cancer and estrogen use. Report of a large case-control study." N Engl J Med 300 (1979): 9-13
12. Gapstur SM, Morrow M, Sellers TA "Hormone replacement therapy and risk of breast cancer with a favorable histology: results of the Iowa women's health study." JAMA 281 (1999): 2091-7
13. Thomas DB, Persing JP, Hutchinson WB "Exogenous estrogens and other risk factors for breast cancer in women with benign breast diseases." J Natl Cancer Inst 69 (1982): 1017-25
14. Spengler RF, Clarke EA, Woolever CA, Newman AM, Osborn RW "Exogenous estrogens and endometrial cancer: a case-control study and assessment of potential biases." Am J Epidemiol 114 (1981): 497-506
15. Gordon J, Reagan JW, Finkle WD, Ziel HK "Estrogen and endometrial carcinoma. An independent pathology review supporting original risk estimate." N Engl J Med 297 (1977): 570-1
16. Collins P, Beale CM, Rosano GMC "Oestrogen as a calcium channel blocker." Eur Heart J 17 ( Suppl (1996): 27-31
17. Jick H, Dinan B, Rothman KJ "Noncontraceptive estrogens and nonfatal myocardial infarction." JAMA 239 (1978): 1407-8
18. Barrett-Connor E, Wingard DL, Criqui MH "Postmenopausal estrogen use and heart disease risk factors in the 1980s. Rancho Bernardo, Calif, revisited." JAMA 261 (1989): 1095-2100
19. Bui MN,  Arai AE,  Hathaway L,  Waclawiw MA,  Csako G,  Cannon RO 3rd "Effect of hormone replacement therapy on carotid arterial compliance in healthy postmenopausal women." Am J Cardiol 90 (2002): 82-5
20. Belchetz PE "Hormonal treatment of postmenopausal women." N Engl J Med 330 (1994): 1062-71
21. Grady D, Rubin SM, Petiti DB, et al. "Hormone therapy to prevent disease and prolong life in postmenopausal women." Ann Intern Med 117 (1992): 1016-36
22. Crane MG, Harris JJ, Winsor W 3d "Hypertension, oral contraceptive agents, and conjugated estrogens." Ann Intern Med 74 (1971): 13-21
23. The Writing Group for the PEPI Trial "Effects of estrogen or estrogen/progestin regimens on heart disease risk factors in postmenopausal women: the Postmenopausal Estrogen/Progestin Interventions (PEPI) Trial." JAMA 273 (1995): 199-208
24. Rosenberg L, Slone D, Shapiro S, Kaufman D, Stolley PD, Miettinen OS "Noncontraceptive estrogens and myocardial infarction in young women." JAMA 244 (1980): 339-42
25. Stampfer MJ, Colditz GA, Willett WC, et al. "Postmenopausal estrogen and cardiovascular disease. Ten-year follow-up from the Nurses' Health Study." N Engl J Med 325 (1991): 756-62
26. Wren BG, Routledge DA "Blood pressure changes: oestrogens in climacteric women." Med J Aust 2 (1981): 528-31
27. Barrett-Connor E, Bush TL "Estrogen and coronary heart disease in women." JAMA 265 (1991): 1861-7
28. Schwartz J, Freeman R, Frishman W "Clinical pharmacology of estrogens: cardiovascular actions and cardioprotective benefits of replacement therapy in postmenopausal women." J Clin Pharmacol 35 (1995): 1-16
29. Crane MG, Harris JJ "Estrogens and hypertension: effect of discontinuing estrogens on blood pressure, exchangeable sodium, and the renin-aldosterone system." Am J Med Sci 276 (1978): 33-55
30. Molitch ME, Oill P, Odell WD "Massive hyperlipemia during estrogen therapy." JAMA 227 (1974): 522-5
31. Cohen L, Coxwell WL, Melchione T, Koltun W, Gibson E, Gupta N, Roberts M "Low-dose 17-beta estradiol matrix transdermal system in the treatment of moderate-to-severe hot flushes in postmenopausal women." Curr Ther Res Clin Exp 60 (1999): 534-47
32. Malini S,  Smith EO,  Goldzieher JW "Measurement of breast volume by ultrasound during normal menstrual cycles and with oral contraceptive use." Obstet Gynecol 66 (1985): 538-41
33. Conter RL, Longmire WP Jr "Recurrent hepatic hemangiomas. Possible association with estrogen therapy." Ann Surg 207 (1988): 115-9
34. Aldinger K, Ben-Menachem Y, Whalen G "Focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver associated with high-dosage estrogens." Arch Intern Med 137 (1977): 357-9
35. Devor M, Barrett-Connor E, Renvall M, Feigal D, Ramsdell J "Estrogen replacement therapy and the risk of venous thrombosis." Am J Med 92 (1992): 275-81
36. Andersson C,  Nilsson A,  Backstrom T "Atypical attack of acute intermittent porphyria--paresis but no abdominal pain." J Intern Med 252 (2002): 265-70
37. Boschetti C, Cortellaro M, Nencioni T, Bertolli V, Della Volpe A, Zanussi C "Short- and long-term effects of hormone replacement therapy (transdermal estradiol vs oral conjugated equine estrogens, combined with medroxyprogesterone acetate) on blood coagulation factors in postmenopausal women." Thromb Res 62 (1991): 1-8
38. Oppenheim G "A case of rapid mood cycling with estrogen: implications for therapy." J Clin Psychiatry 45 (1984): 34-5
39. Steiger MJ, Quinn NP "Hormone replacement therapy induced chorea." BMJ 302 (1991): 762
40. Auerbach R, Mittal K, Schwartz PE "Estrogen and progestin receptors in an ovarian ependymoma." Obstet Gynecol 71 (1988): 1043-5
41. Julian TM "Pseudoincontinence secondary to unopposed estrogen replacement in the surgically castrate premenopausal female." Obstet Gynecol 70 (1987): 382-3
Not all side effects for Estrace may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
transdermal emulsion, transdermal gel/jelly, transdermal patch extended release, transdermal spray

Vaginal yeast infection


Change in vaginal discharge
clear or bloody discharge from the nipple
decrease in the amount of urine
dimpling of the breast skin
fast heartbeat
fever
hives, itching, or rash
hoarseness
inverted nipple
irritation
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
lump in the breast or under the arm
noisy, rattling breathing
pain or feeling of pressure in the pelvis
pain, redness, or swelling in the arm or leg
persistent crusting or scaling of the nipple
redness of the skin
redness or swelling of the breast
sore on the skin of the breast that does not heal
swelling of the eyelids, face, fingers, lips, hands, feet, or lower legs
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing at rest
troubled breathing or swallowing
vaginal bleeding


Abdominal or stomach pain
dizziness
drowsiness
nausea or vomiting
tenderness of the breasts
unusual tiredness or weakness


Back pain
headache
itching or pain of the vagina or genital area
thick, white vaginal discharge with mild or no odor
weight gain


Body aches or pain
chills
cough
diarrhea
ear congestion
loss of voice
nasal congestion
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat


Feeling sad or empty
headache, severe and throbbing
irritability
lack of appetite
tiredness
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
welts

