Applies to ethosuximide: oral capsule liquid filled, oral syrup
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by ethosuximide. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking ethosuximide:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking ethosuximide, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with ethosuximide may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to ethosuximide: oral capsule, oral syrup
Gastrointestinal side effects have frequently included anorexia, vague gastric upset, nausea, vomiting, cramps, epigastric and abdominal pain, weight loss, and diarrhea.  Gum hypertrophy and swelling of the tongue have also been reported.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included leukopenia, agranulocytosis, pancytopenia (with or without bone marrow suppression), and eosinophilia.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included drowsiness, headache, dizziness, euphoria, hiccups, irritability, hyperactivity, lethargy, fatigue, and ataxia.[Ref]
The manufacturer reports psychiatric side effects associated with ethosuximide therapy may be more frequent in patients who have previously exhibited psychosocial abnormalities.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects have included sleep disturbances, night terrors, inability to concentrate, and aggressiveness.  Paranoid psychosis, increased libido, and increased state of depression with overt suicidal intentions have been reported rarely.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included urticaria, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), systemic lupus erythematosus, pruritic erythematous rashes, and hirsutism.  SJS symptoms usually manifest within 28 days, but may occur later and can be fatal.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have included myopia.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included vaginal bleeding and microscopic hematuria.[Ref]
Other side effects reported postmarketing have included Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS).
1. "Product Information. Zarontin (ethosuximide)." Parke-Davis, Morris Plains, NJ. 
Not all side effects for ethosuximide may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Changes in behavior
discouragement
feeling sad or empty
irritability
lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
mood or mental changes
thoughts of killing oneself
tiredness
trouble with concentrating
trouble with sleeping


Attack, assault, or force
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
blood in the urine
bloody, black, or tarry stools
chest pain
cough or hoarseness
diarrhea
enlarged gums
false or unusual sense of well-being
fever and chills
fever with or without chills
general feeling of discomfort or illness
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
hair loss
headaches
high fever
hives, itching, and skin rash
joint or muscle pain
lower back or side pain
nervousness
not able to concentrate
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
restlessness
shakiness and unsteady walk
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swelling around the eyes
swelling of the tongue
swollen, painful, or tender lymph glands in the neck, armpit, or groin
trouble sitting still
trouble with breathing
unexplained bleeding or bruising
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
vaginal bleeding
vision changes
yellow eyes or skin 


Change in consciousness
irregular, fast or slow, or shallow breathing
loss of consciousness
pale or blue lips, fingernails, or skin


Increased in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
increased interest in sexual intercourse


Cramps
dizziness
drowsiness
heartburn
hiccups
increased hair growth, especially on the face
loss of appetite
nausea or vomiting
nearsightedness
pain or discomfort in the chest, upper stomach, or throat
redness of the skin
unusual drowsiness, dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness
weight loss

