Generic Name: fibrin sealant topical
Applies to fibrin sealant topical: solution
Other dosage forms:
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by fibrin sealant topical (the active ingredient contained in Evarrest). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking fibrin sealant topical, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with fibrin sealant topical may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to fibrin sealant topical: topical kit, topical solution
General side effects have been reported including rare reports of serious adverse events such as paralysis and other compressive complications possibly related to the use of fibrin sealant in combination with resorbable hemostatic agents.  There have also been rare reports of fatalities following the misadministration of topical thrombin.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects such as anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions including shock have been reported rarely.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects including tachycardia, bradycardia, hypotension, and thromboembolic complications have been reported rarely.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects including severe dyspnea have been reported rarely.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects including flush, urticaria, and pruritus have been reported rarely.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea have been reported rarely.
A D-dimer is a fragment produced during the degradation of a clot.  Postoperatively increased D-dimers may result at least partly from the degradation of fibrin sealant.[Ref]
Other side effects including increased D-dimer levels have been reported in a clinical study on cardiovascular surgery, but did not exceed values reported in the literature occurring after this type of surgery.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Tisseel (fibrin sealant topical)." Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Deerfield, IL. 
Not all side effects for Evarrest may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
topical application pad, topical application powder, topical application sheet, topical application sponge

Collection of blood or fluids under the skin
deep, dark purple bruise
itching, pain, redness, or swelling of the skin, wound, or treated area


Blurred vision
chest pain, discomfort, or tightness
confusion
cough
difficulty breathing
difficulty swallowing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fast, slow, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
flushing, redness of the skin
hives, itching, skin rash
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
lightheadedness, dizziness, or fainting
numbness or tingling in the face, arms, or legs
pain in the chest, groin, or legs, especially the calves
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
severe, sudden headache
shortness of breath
slurred speech
sudden loss of coordination
sudden, severe weakness or numbness in the arm or leg
sweating
trouble healing
trouble speaking or walking
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusually warm skin


Burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
nausea

