Generic Name: melphalan
Applies to melphalan: oral tablet
Other dosage forms:
Along with their needed effects, medicines like melphalan (the active ingredient contained in Evomela) can sometimes cause unwanted effects such as blood problems and other side effects. These and others are described below. Also, because of the way these medicines act on the body, there is a chance that they might cause other unwanted effects that may not occur until months or years after the medicine is used. These delayed effects may include certain types of cancer, such as leukemia. Discuss these possible effects with your doctor.
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by melphalan. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking melphalan:
Some of the side effects that can occur with melphalan may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to melphalan: intravenous powder for injection, oral tablet
Hematologic side effects including bone marrow suppression and anemia have been reported.  Bone marrow suppression is the most common and the most significant toxicity associated with melphalan (the active ingredient contained in Evomela) in most patients.  Hemolytic anemia has also been reported.[Ref]
Bone marrow suppression is usually reversible if melphalan is withdrawn early enough.[Ref]
The risk of leukemogenesis increases with chronicity of treatment and with cumulative dose.[Ref]
Oncologic side effects including secondary malignancies such as acute nonlymphocytic leukemia, myeloproliferative syndrome, and carcinoma have been reported.  Melphalan has been reported to cause chromatid or chromosome damage in humans.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects including the suppression of ovarian function in premenopausal women and both reversible and irreversible testicular suppression have been reported.[Ref]
The suppression of ovarian function in premenopausal women has been reported to result in amenorrhea in a significant number of patients.[Ref]
Fatal outcomes associated with pulmonary fibrosis have been reported.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects including pulmonary fibrosis and interstitial pneumonitis have been reported.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects including , maculopapular rashes, skin rashes, alopecia, and skin hypersensitivity have been reported.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects including cardiac arrest and vasculitis have been reported.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, and oral ulceration have been reported infrequently.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects including toxicity have been reported rarely.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects including anaphylaxis have been reported rarely.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported after multiple courses of treatment and have recurred in patients who previously experienced a hypersensitivity reaction.[Ref]
Endocrine side effects including two cases of syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion have been reported following high-dose intravenous melphalan (the active ingredient contained in Evomela) [Ref]
Other side effects including a sensation of warmth and/or tingling have been reported.
Renal side effects including temporary significant elevation of the blood urea have been seen in the early stages of therapy in patients with renal damage.
1. "Product Information. Alkeran Tablets (melphalan)." Glaxo Wellcome, Research Triangle Pk, NC. 
2. Curtis RE, Boice JD Jr, Stovall M, Bernstein L, Greenberg RS, Flannery JT, Schwartz AG, Weyer P, Moloney WC, Hoover RN "Risk of leukemia after chemotherapy and radiation treatment for breast cancer." N Engl J Med 326 (1992): 1745-51
3. Greene MH, Harris EL, Gershenson DM, Malkasian GD Jr, Melton LJ 3d, Dembo AJ, Bennett JM, Moloney WC, Boice JD Jr, Melton LJ "Melphalan may be a more potent leukemogen than cyclophosphamide." Ann Intern Med 105 (1986): 360-7
4. Kaldor JM, Day NE, Pettersson F, Clarke EA, Pedersen D, Mehnert W, Bell J, Host H, Prior P, Karjalainen S, et al, Hst H "Leukemia following chemotherapy for ovarian cancer." N Engl J Med 322 (1990): 1-6
5. Akasheh MS, Freytes CO, Vesole DH "Melphalan-associated pulmonary toxicity following high-dose therapy with autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation." Bone Marrow Transplant 26 (2000): 1107-9
6. Greenbaum-Lefkoe B, Rosenstock JG, Belasco JB, Rohrbaugh TM, Meadows AT "Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion. A complication of high-dose intravenous melphalan." Cancer 55 (1985): 44-6
Not all side effects for Evomela may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
intravenous powder for solution

Black, tarry stools
blood in urine or stools
cough or hoarseness, accompanied by fever or chills
fast or irregular heart beat
fever or chills
lower back or side pain, accompanied by fever or chills
painful or difficult urination, accompanied by fever or chills
pinpoint red spots on skin
shortness of breath
skin rash or itching (sudden)
troubled breathing
unusual bleeding or bruising


Diarrhea
difficulty swallowing
joint pain
redness and/or soreness in arm or leg
sores in the mouth and on the lips
swelling of the feet or lower legs


Nausea and vomiting

