If any of the following side effects occur while taking fulvestrant, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea (26%), vomiting (13%), constipation (12.5%), diarrhea (12.3%), abdominal pain (11.8%), and anorexia (9%).
Hematologic side effects have included anemia (4.5%) and postmarketing reports of leukopenia.
Cardiovascular side effects have included vasodilation (17.7%), and peripheral edema (9%).  Postmarketing reports have included thromboembolic phenomena.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included bone pain (15.8%), and arthritis (2.8%).  Postmarketing reports have included myalgia.
Nervous system side effects have included dizziness (6.9%), insomnia (6.9%), paresthesia (6.4%), depression (5.7%), and anxiety (5%).  Postmarketing reports have included vertigo.
Respiratory side effects have included pharyngitis (16.1%), dyspnea (14.9%), and cough increased (10.4%).
Genitourinary side effects have included urinary tract infection (6.1%).  Postmarketing reports have included vaginal bleeding.
Dermatologic side effects have included rash (7.3%).
Endocrine side effects have included sweating (5%).
General side effects have included asthenia (22.7%), pain (18.9%), headache (15.4%), back pain (14.4%), pain at injection site (10.9%), pelvic pain (9.9%), chest pain (7.1%), flu syndrome (7.1%), fever (6.4%), and accidental injury (4.5%).
Hypersensitivity side effects including angioedema and urticaria have been reported.
Hepatic side effects have included postmarketing reports of elevated bilirubin, elevated gamma GT, hepatitis, and liver failure.
Bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
rapid weight gain
tingling of the hands or feet
unusual weight gain or loss
Difficult or labored breathing
tightness in the chest
Black, tarry stools
chest pain
chills
cough
fever
flushing or redness of the skin
hives or welts, itching, or rash
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
pain in the chest, groin, or legs, especially the calves
painful or difficult urination
severe and sudden headache
slurred speech
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
sudden and severe weakness or numbness in the arm or leg
sudden loss of coordination
sudden unexplained shortness of breath
swollen glands
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
vaginal bleeding
vision changes
Back pain
bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
body aches or pain
bone pain
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
depression
diarrhea
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
difficulty with moving
dizziness
dryness or soreness of the throat
feeling faint, dizzy, or lightheaded
feeling of warmth or heat
feeling sad or empty
frequent urge to urinate
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
hoarseness
irritability
joint pain
lack or loss of appetite
lack or loss of strength
loss of interest or pleasure
lower back or side pain
muscle aches and pains
muscle stiffness
nausea
pain at the injection site
pain in the arms or legs
pelvic pain
shivering
stomach pain
sudden sweating
tender, swollen glands in the neck
trouble concentrating
trouble with swallowing
unable to sleep
voice changes
vomiting
weight loss
Nervousness
pain, swelling, or redness in the joints
pale skin
Dizziness or lightheadedness
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
sensation of spinning