More frequently reported side effects include: peripheral edema and headache.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to felodipine: oral tablet extended release
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by felodipine. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking felodipine:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking felodipine, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with felodipine may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to felodipine: oral tablet extended release
Side effects of felodipine were generally mild and transient.  The most common side effects reported with felodipine given at 2.5 to 10 mg per day were peripheral edema and headache.  Therapy was discontinued due to adverse drug events in about 6% of patients, primarily for peripheral edema, headache or flushing.A dose of 20 mg per day has been evaluated in some clinical trials.  Although 20 mg per day increased the antihypertensive effect of felodipine, a disproportionate increase in side effects, especially those associated with vasodilatory effects, was reported.[Ref]
Peripheral edema was generally mild, but it was age and dose related.  It resulted in treatment discontinuation in about 3% of patients.
Other side effects have included peripheral edema (up to 17.4%), flushing (up to 6.9%), asthenia (up to 3.9%), warm sensation (up to 1.5%), chest pain, facial edema, and influenza-like illness.
Nervous system side effects have included headache (up to 14.7%), dizziness (up to 3.7%), paresthesia (up to 1.6%), syncope, insomnia, and somnolence.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included palpitation (up to 2.5%), myocardial infarction, hypotension, angina pectoris, arrhythmia, tachycardia, premature beats, and leukocytoclastic vasculitis.  A few rare cases of felodipine-induced telangiectasia have been reported.[Ref]
Gingival hyperplasia has been avoided or has regressed with good dental hygiene.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included dyspepsia (up to 3.9%), nausea (up to 1.7%), constipation (1.5%), abdominal pain, diarrhea, vomiting, dry mouth, flatulence, and acid regurgitation.  Gingival hyperplasia, usually mild, has been reported in less than 0.5% of patients.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included upper respiratory infection (up to 3.9%), cough (up to 1.7%), rhinorrhea (up to 1.6%), sneezing (up to 1.6%), dyspnea, pharyngitis, bronchitis, influenza, sinusitis, epistaxis, and respiratory infection.
Dermatologic side effects have included rash (up to 2%), angioedema, contusion, erythema, and urticaria.
Hematologic side effects have included anemia.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgia, back pain, leg pain, foot pain, muscle cramps, myalgia, arm pain, knee pain, and hip pain.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included elevated ALT (SGPT) and unspecified serum transaminases.
In clinical studies, one of two episodes of elevated serum transaminases decreased following drug discontinuation; no follow-up was available for the second patient.
Psychiatric system side effects have included depression, anxiety disorders, irritability, nervousness, and decreased libido.
Genitourinary side effects have included gynecomastia, impotence, urinary frequency, urinary urgency, dysuria, and polyuria.
Ocular system side effects have included visual disturbances.
1. Yedinak KC, Lopez LM "Felodipine: a new dihydropyridine calcium-channel antagonist." DICP 25 (1991): 1193-206
2. "Felodipine--another calcium-channel blocker for hypertension." Med Lett Drugs Ther 33 (1991): 115-6
3. Todd PA, Faulds D "Felodipine: a review of the pharmacology and therapeutic use of the extended release formulation in cardiovascular disorders." Drugs 44 (1992): 251-77
4. "Product Information. Plendil (felodipine)." Merck & Co, Inc, West Point, PA. 
5. Weber MA, Goldberg AI, Faison EP, Lipschutz K, Shapiro DA, Nelson EB, Irvin JD "Extended-release felodipine in patients with mild to moderate hypertension." Clin Pharmacol Ther 55 (1994): 346-52
6. Schaefer RM, Aldons PM, Burgess ED, Tilvis R, Singh GP, Rehn L, Morgan TO "Improved tolerability of felodipine compared with amlodipine in elderly hypertensives: A randomised, double-blind study in 535 patients, focusing on vasodilatory adverse events." Int J Clin Pract 52 (1998): 381
7. Carruthers SG, Vintreed C "Antihypertensive effect and tolerability of felodipine extended release (er) tablets in comparison with felodipine plain tablets (pt) and placebo in hypertensives on a diuretic." Clin Invest Med 16 (1993): 386-94
8. Wiklund I, Dimenas E, Partridge S "Effects of felodipine extended release on quality of life - an analysis of four clinical trials." Curr Ther Res Clin Exp 56 (1995): 81-94
9. Cambell LM, Ross JR, Goves JR, Lees CT, McCullagh A, Barnes P, Timerick SJ, Richardson PD "A dose-finding, placebo-controlled study on extended-release felodipine once daily in treatment of hypertension." J Cardiovasc Pharmacol 14 (1989): 869-73
10. Achilli F, Buono G, Difraia S, Dolara A, Raffo M, Montereggi A, Ravera E, Valagussa F "Acute and chronic effects of felodipine extended release and amlodipine in patients with exertional angina: a double-masked, clinical comparison." Curr Ther Res Clin Exp 57 (1996): 523-36
11. Cutler SA, Hammond JJ "A multicenter comparison of isradipine and felodipine in the treatment of mild-to-moderate hypertension. The Physician's Study Group." Am J Hypertens 6 (1993): s44-8
12. Fagan TC, Haggert BE, Liss C "Efficacy and tolerability of extended-release felodipine and extended-release nifedipine in patients with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension." Clin Ther 16 (1994): 634-46
13. Vanderkrogt KP, Brand R, Dawson EC "Amlodipine versus extended-release felodipine in general practice: a randomized, parallel-group study in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension." Curr Ther Res Clin Exp 57 (1996): 145-58
14. Goudie AW, Gupta OP, Gray PL, Ross JRM, Goves JR, Mckenna BJ, Blomfield IA, Bramley KW, Sharp RW, Jones DF, Hadley RJ "A comparison of felodipine and nifedipine as monotherapy in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension." Curr Ther Res Clin Exp 55 (1994): 625-31
15. Walton T, Symes LR "Felodipine and isradipine: new calcium-channel-blocking agents for the treatment of hypertension." Clin Pharm 12 (1993): 261-75
16. Al-Niaimi F,  Lyon C "Felodipine-induced eruptive telangiectasia following mastectomy and radiotherapy." Br J Dermatol  (2009):
17. Welin L, Elvelin L, Niklasson A, Olsson G, Elmfeldt D "Overview of the safety of felodipine based on clinical trials in patients with hypertension." Am J Cardiol 79 (1997): 996
18. Hasselgren B, Edgar B, Johnsson G, Ronn O "The acute haemodynamic and renal effects of oral felodipine and ramipril in healthy subjects." Eur J Clin Pharmacol 45 (1993): 327-32
19. Silvestre JF, Albares MP, Carnero L, Botella R "Photodistributed felodipine-induced facial telangiectasia." J Am Acad Dermatol 45 (2001): 323-4
20. Lorimer AR, Pringle SD "The safety of felodipine." J Cardiovasc Pharmacol 15 (1990): s85-9
21. Young PC, Turiansky GW, Sau P, Liebman MD, Benson PM "Felodipine-induced gingival hyperplasia." Cutis 62 (1998): 41-3
Not all side effects for felodipine may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bloating or swelling of face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
rapid weight gain
tingling of hands or feet
unusual weight gain or loss


Body aches or pain
chills
cough
difficulty in breathing
ear congestion
fever
headache
loss of voice
nasal congestion
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness


Blurred vision
chest pain, tightness, or heaviness
confusion
congestion
cough producing mucus
diarrhea
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly
fast, slow, or irregular heartbeat
general feeling of discomfort or illness
hoarseness
joint pain
large, hive-like swelling on face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
muscle aches and pains
nausea
pain or discomfort in arms, jaw, back, or neck
pale skin
shivering
shortness of breath
sweating
swelling or puffiness of face
tender or swollen glands in neck
trouble in swallowing
trouble sleeping
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
voice changes
wheezing


Feeling of warmth
redness of the face, neck, arms and occasionally, upper chest


Acid or sour stomach
belching
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
constipation
heartburn
indigestion
lack or loss of strength
skin rash
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain


Bleeding gums
irritation in mouth
redness and swelling of gums


Bloated or full feeling
bloody nose
burning while urinating
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
difficult or painful urination
difficulty in moving
discouragement
disturbed color perception
double vision
dry mouth
excess air or gas in stomach or intestines
feeling sad or empty
fear or nervousness
frequent strong or increased urge to urinate
halos around lights
hives or welts
inability to have or keep an erection
increased need to urinate
increased volume of pale or dilute urine
irritability
itching
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
loss of interest or pleasure
muscle cramps or stiffness
night blindness
overbright appearance of lights
pain or tenderness around eyes and cheekbones
passing gas
passing urine more often
redness of skin
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sleeplessness
sores, welting, or blisters
swelling of the breasts or breast soreness in both females and males
swollen joints
tiredness
trouble concentrating
tunnel vision
unable to sleep

