Applies to fibrinogen: intravenous powder for solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by fibrinogen. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking fibrinogen, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with fibrinogen may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to fibrinogen: intravenous powder for injection
Cardiovascular side effects have included thromboembolic episodes, including myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis, and arterial thrombosis.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included allergic-anaphylactic reactions (including rash and dyspnea).[Ref]
General side effects have included chills, fever, nausea, and vomiting.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. RiaSTAP (fibrinogen)." CSL Behring, King of Prussia, PA. 
Not all side effects for fibrinogen may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Fever


Anxiety
chest pain or discomfort
chills
cough
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness or lightheadedness
fainting
fast heartbeat
nausea
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
pain, redness, or swelling in the arm or leg
pains in the chest, groin, or legs, especially in the calves of the legs
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
severe headaches of sudden onset
skin rash, hives, or itching
sudden loss of coordination
sudden onset of shortness of breath for no apparent reason
sudden onset of slurred speech
sudden vision changes
sweating
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting


Headache

