More frequently reported side effects include: cardiac arrest.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to flecainide: oral capsule extended release, oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by flecainide. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking flecainide:
Some of the side effects that can occur with flecainide may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to flecainide: oral tablet
The Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial (CAST) revealed significantly higher mortality associated with flecainide in patients with a recent history (more than six days but less than two years prior to study) of myocardial infarction (MI) and non-life-threatening ventricular ectopy relative to placebo (5.1% versus 2.3%).  The risk of death relative to placebo in patients with a recent history of Q-wave MI and non-Q-wave MI is 8.7 and 1.7, respectively.  Use of flecainide in this context is potentially harmful.Side effects are more likely when plasma flecainide concentrations are greater than 1.0 mcg/mL.[Ref]
Risk factors for a proarrhythmic effect include underlying congenital or structural heart disease.A case of "pseudoinfarction" has been reported in which flecainide induced a transient right bundle branch block with a focal block in the septal fibers of the left bundle branch system.  An electrocardiogram (ECG) also revealed ST segment elevations and a Q-wave pattern, consistent with septal infarction.  The patient did not have a myocardial infarction by enzyme studies, and the ECG abnormalities resolved after discontinuation of flecainide.One patient with a history of ischemic congestive heart failure, myocardial infarction (MI), and ventricular arrhythmias developed profound cardiogenic shock without evidence of MI or a new or worsened ventricular arrhythmia.  The associated serum flecainide concentration was 1.8 mcg/mL.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects including arrhythmias are the most serious side effects.  Flecainide may cause or exacerbate arrhythmias in 1% of patients with preexisting paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia and in 7%  of patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Flecainide may also exacerbate arrhythmias in 7% to 13% of patients with preexisting sustained or nonsustained ventricular arrhythmias.Flecainide-induced arrhythmias include sinus bradycardia or arrest in 2%, bundle branch blocks in 1%, increased premature ventricular depolarizations in 1%, ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation in 0.5%, and sudden death in 0.2% of patients.  New ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in 3.4% of patients.Flecainide may cause prolongation of the PR, QRS, and corrected QT intervals.  Most of the QT interval prolongation is attributable to widening of the QRS complex rather than prolongation of the JT interval.  Rare cases of torsades de pointes have been reported.Exacerbation of congestive heart failure is rare and only occurs in about 0.5% and 9% of patients with preexisting supraventricular arrhythmias and ventricular arrhythmias, respectively.  Hypotension is almost exclusively associated with intravenous administration of flecainide.[Ref]
Flecainide may exacerbate myasthenia gravis.At least 6 cases of flecainide-induced peripheral neuropathy (sensory loss) have been reported and it appears to develop after prolonged use ( 2 to 10 years).  Following discontinuation of flecainide therapy, symptoms (e.g., lower-extremity weakness and/or paresthesias, gait disturbance) resolved over 3 to 6 months.  However, in some cases the neuropathy did not resolve after discontinuation of flecainide.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects, such as dizziness and visual disturbances (including blurred vision, decreased acuity, and scotomata) occur in 13% to 28% of patients who are taking flecainide doses of 400 mg per day.  Transient headaches, asthenia, feelings of a thick tongue or lips, fatigue, paresthesias, and tremors have been reported in 2% to 10% of patients.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects include abdominal pain, nausea, and constipation in 1% to 4% of patients.  Diarrhea occurs rarely.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects including weakness has been reported and may be more likely in patients with underlying muscular disorders.[Ref]
A 33-year-old woman with atrial fibrillation, mitral valve prolapse, and a congenital muscle fiber disproportion myopathy developed muscle weakness which partially resolved after flecainide dosage reduction and completely resolved after substitution of flecainide with other antiarrhythmic agents.[Ref]
High performance liquid chromatographic analysis of excised corneal deposits in one patient revealed opacities with the same chromatographic characteristics of flecainide.[Ref]
Ocular side effects are limited to rare cases of corneal deposits.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects including complaints of impotence are reported in 4% of patients.  A case of urinary retention associated with flecainide has been reported.[Ref]
Class I antiarrhythmic agents such as flecainide have local anesthetic and anticholinergic properties which may rarely cause urinary retention.[Ref]
A case of reversible flecainide-induced pneumonitis was reported in a 61-year-old man with a remote history of pulmonary tuberculosis.  A complete infectious disease work-up was negative.  Serial bronchial-alveolar lavages and chest radiographs were consistent with a drug-induced process.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects are extremely rare.[Ref]
One patient developed leukopenia after 5 months of flecainide therapy.  The leukopenia resolved after drug discontinuation and did not recur when flecainide was reinstituted.  The leukopenia may have been due to a concurrent viral infection.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects are extremely rare.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects including enzyme concentration elevations have been reported in rare cases.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects including paranoid psychosis was reported in a 62-year-old patient receiving flecainide for the treatment of malignant neuropathic pain.[Ref]
1. Tjandra-Maga TB, Verbesselt R, Van Hecken A, Mullie A, De Schepper PJ "Flecainide: single and multiple oral dose kinetics, absolute bioavailability and effect of food and antacid in man." Br J Clin Pharmacol 22 (1986): 309-16
2. Greenberg HM, Dwyer EM, Hochman JS, Steinberg JS, Echt DS, Peters RW "Interaction of ischaemia and encainide/flecainide treatment: a proposed mechanism for the increased mortality in CAST I." Br Heart J 74 (1995): 631-5
3. Akiyama T, Pawitan Y, Greenberg H, et al "Increased risk of death and cardiac arrest from encainide and flecainide in patients after non-Q-wave acute myocardial infarction in the cardiac arrhythmia suppressi." Am J Cardiol 68 (1991): 1551-5
4. Van Gelder IC, Crijns JGM, Van Gilst WH, et al "Efficacy and safety of flecainide acetate in the maintenance of sinus rhythm after electrical cardioversion of chronic atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter." Am J Cardiol 64 (1989): 1317-21
5. Forbes WP, Hee TT, Mohiuddin SM, Hillman DE "Flecainide-induced cardiogenic shock." Chest 94 (1988): 1121
6. Heisler BE, Ferrier GR "Proarrhythmic actions of flecainide in an isolated tissue model of ischemia and reperfusion." J Pharmacol Exp Ther 279 (1996): 317-24
7. Hopson JR, Buxton AE, Rinkenberger RL, Nademanee K, Heilman JM, Kienzle MG "Safety and utility of flecainide acetate in the routine care of patients with supraventricular tachyarrhythmias: results of a multicenter trial." Am J Cardiol 77 (1996): a72-82
8. Epstein AE, Hallstrom AP, Rogers WJ, Liebson PR, Seals AA, Anderson JL, Cohen JD, Capone RJ, Wyse DG "Mortality following ventricular arrhythmia suppression by encainide, flecainide, and moricizine after myocardial infarction - the original design concept of the cardiac arrhythmia suppression trial (cast)." JAMA 270 (1993): 2451-5
9. Puech P, Gagnol JP "Class IC drugs: propafenone and flecainide." Cardiovasc Drugs Ther 4 (1990): 549-53
10. Anderson JL, Platt ML, Guarnieri T, Fox TL, Maser MJ, Pritchett ELC, Kay GN, Plumb VJ, Epstein AE, Bubien RS, Bhandari "Flecainide acetate far paroxysmal supraventricular tachyarrhythmias." Am J Cardiol 74 (1994): 578-84
11. Levine B, Chute D, Caplan YH "Flecainide intoxication." J Anal Toxicol 14 (1990): 335-6
12. Andrivet P, Beaslay V, Canh VD "Torsades de pointe with flecainide-amiodarone therapy." Intensive Care Med 16 (1990): 342-3
13. Fish FA, Gillette PC, Benson DW "Proarrhythmia, cardiac arrest and death in young patients receiving encainide and flecainide." J Am Coll Cardiol 18 (1991): 356-65
14. Hohnloser SH, Zabel M "Short- and long-term efficacy and safety of flecainide acetate for supraventricular arrhythmias." Am J Cardiol 70 (1992): a3-10
15. Winkelmann BR, Leinberger H "Life-threatening flecainide toxicity." Ann Intern Med 106 (1987): 807-14
16. Strambabadiale M, Lazzarotti M, Facchini M, Schwartz PJ "Malignant arrhythmias and acute myocardial ischemia: interaction between flecainide and the autonomic nervous system." Am Heart J 128 (1994): 973-82
17. Karl M "Life-threatening flecainide toxicity." Ann Intern Med 107 (1987): 780
18. Marcus FI "The hazards of using type 1C antiarrhythmic drugs for the treatment of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation." Am J Cardiol 66 (1990): 366-7
19. Psaty BM,  Psaty SE "Flecainide toxicity in an older adult." J Am Geriatr Soc 57 (2009): 751-3
20. Anderson JL "Long-term safety and efficacy of flecainide in the treatment of supraventricular tachyarrhythmias: the united states experience." Am J Cardiol 70 (1992): a11-8
21. Aliot E, Denjoy I, Attuel, Admant, Rey, Janody, Richard, Lang, Valere, Morane, Kahn, Kayanakis, Janinmagnificat, Fauvel "Comparison of the safety and efficacy of flecainide versus propafenone in hospital out-patients with symptomatic paroxysmal atrial fibrillation/flutter." Am J Cardiol 77 (1996): a66-71
22. Said SAM, Somer ST, Luttikhuis HAO "Flecainide-induced JT prolongation, t wave inversion and ventricular tachycardia during treatment for symptomatic atrial fibrillation." Int J Cardiol 44 (1994): 285-7
23. Salerno DM, Granrud G, Sharkey P, Krejci J, Larson T, Erlien D, Berry D, Hodges M "Pharmacodynamics and side effects of flecainide acetate." Clin Pharmacol Ther 40 (1986): 101-7
24. Windle JR, Witt RC, Rozanski GJ "Effects of flecainide on ectopic atrial automaticity and conduction." Circulation 88 (1993): 1878-84
25. Clementy J, Dulhoste MN, Laiter C, et al "Flecainide acetate in the prevention of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: a nine-month follow-up of more than 500 patients." Am J Cardiol 70 (1992): a44-9
26. Facchini M, Varisco T, Bonazzi O, et al "Efficacy and safety of flecainide in low-risk patients with chronic ventricular arrhythmias: a two-year follow-up." Am Heart J 117 (1989): 1258-64
27. Crozier I "Flecainide in the wolff-parkinson-white syndrome." Am J Cardiol 70 (1992): a26-32
28. Roden DM "Risks and benefits of antiarrhythmic therapy." N Engl J Med 331 (1994): 785-91
29. Cockrell JL, Scheinman MM, Titus C, et al "Safety and efficacy of oral flecainide therapy in patients with atrioventricular re-entrant tachycardia." Ann Intern Med 114 (1991): 189-94
30. Van Aubel KJJCM, Ruiter JH, Arnold AER, Burgersduk C "Pseudo infarction ECG pattern occurring during intravenous treatment with flecainide acetate." Eur Heart J 13 (1992): 137-9
31. Chimienti M, Cullen MT, Casadei G "Safety of long-term flecainide and propafenone in the management of patients with symptomatic paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: report from the flecainide and propafenone italian study investigators." Am J Cardiol 77 (1996): a60-5
32. Donovan KD, Power BM, Hockings BEF, Dobb G, Lee KY "Intravenous flecainide versus amiodarone for recent-onset atrial fibrillation." Am J Cardiol 75 (1995): 693-7
33. Malesker MA,  Sojka SG,  Fagan NL "Flecainide-induced neuropathy." Ann Pharmacother 39 (2005): 1580-1
34. Pedersen KE, Christiansen BD, Kjaer K, Klitgaard NA, Nielsen-Kudsk F "Verapamil-induced changes in digoxin kinetics and intraerythrocytic sodium concentration." Clin Pharmacol Ther 34 (1983): 8-13
35. Hellestrand KJ "Efficacy and safety of long-term oral flecainide acetate in patients with responsive supraventricular tachycardia." Am J Cardiol 77 (1996): a83-8
36. Ferrick KJ, Power M "Profound exacerbation of neuromuscular weakness by flecainide." Am Heart J 119 (1990): 414-5
37. Ramhamadany E, Mackenzie S, Ramsdale DR "Dysarthria and visual hallucinations due to flecainide toxicity." Postgrad Med J 62 (1986): 61-2
38. Moller HU, Thygesen K, Kruit PJ "Corneal deposits associated with flecainide." BMJ 302 (1991): 506-7
39. Ziegelbaum M, Lever H "Acute urinary retention associated with flecainide." Cleve Clin J Med 57 (1990): 86-7
40. Akoun GM, Cadranel JL, Israel-Biet D, Gauthier-Rahman S "Flecainide-associated pneumonitis." Lancet 337 (1991): 49
41. "Product Information. Tambocor (flecainide)." 3M Pharmaceuticals, St. Paul, MN. 
42. Bennett MI "Paranoid psychosis due to flecainide toxicity in malignant neuropathic pain." Pain 70 (1997): 93-4
Not all side effects for flecainide may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Difficult or labored breathing
dizziness, fainting, or lightheadedness
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
shortness of breath
tightness in the chest
wheezing


Burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chest pain
fainting
feeling of warmth
fever
increased sweating
partial or slight paralysis
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
shakiness and unsteady walk
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
swelling of the feet or lower legs
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination


Arm, back, or jaw pain
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
blurred vision
chest discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
chills
confusion
convulsions
cough
decrease in the frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
difficulty with breathing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
frequent urination
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
increased volume of pale, dilute urine
nausea
nervousness
noisy breathing
painful or difficult urination
pinpoint red spots on the skin
pounding in the ears
sensation of pins and needles
slow or fast heartbeat
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stabbing pain
sweating
swollen glands
thickening of bronchial secretions
troubled breathing
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
yellow eyes or skin


Blurred vision or seeing spots


Abdominal or stomach pain
acid or sour stomach
anxiety or mental depression
belching
constipation
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
depression
diarrhea
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
general feeling of discomfort or illness
hearing loss
heartburn
indigestion
lack or loss of strength
loss of appetite
sensation of spinning
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sleeplessness
skin rash
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
trouble with sleeping
unable to sleep
weight loss


Bloated
change in color vision
change in taste
cracks in the skin
decreased awareness or responsiveness
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
difficulty seeing at night
difficulty with moving
dry mouth
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
eye pain  or irritation
false or unusual sense of well-being
feeling of unreality
full feeling
hair loss or thinning of the hair
hives or welts
inability to have or keep an erection
increased sensitivity of the eyes to sunlight
itching skin
joint pain
lack of feeling or emotion
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
loss of heat from the body
loss of memory
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pain or stiffness
passing gas
problems with memory
red, swollen skin
scaly skin
sense of detachment from self or body
severe sleepiness
swollen joints
swollen lips, mouth, or tongue
uncaring uncontrolled eye movements

