Generic Name: fludrocortisone
Applies to fludrocortisone: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by fludrocortisone (the active ingredient contained in Florinef). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking fludrocortisone:
Some of the side effects that can occur with fludrocortisone may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to fludrocortisone: compounding powder, oral tablet
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypertension, edema, cardiac enlargement, and congestive heart failure.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included gastrointestinal upset, nausea, vomiting, and peptic ulcer disease.  Pancreatitis, ulcerative esophagitis, gastrointestinal perforation and hemorrhage also have been reported.[Ref]
Corticosteroids may induce glucose intolerance by reducing the utilization of glucose in tissues and increasing hepatic glucose output.  Diabetes mellitus requiring diet modifications and hypoglycemic agents has developed in some patients.Adrenal suppression can persist for twelve months or longer following long-term corticosteroid therapy.[Ref]
Endocrine side effects have included decreased glucose tolerance and hyperglycemia resulting in diabetes-like symptoms and/or increased requirements of hypoglycemic agents in diabetics.  Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal activity has been suppressed for 12 months or longer following long-term fludrocortisone administration.  Cushingoid appearance has been a common occurrence with chronic therapy and hirsutism or virilism, impotence, and menstrual irregularities have occurred.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects have included significant sodium retention, hypokalemia and hypocalcemia.  Other side effects  have included hyperglycemia, glycosuria, and negative nitrogen balance due to increased protein catabolism.[Ref]
Immunologic side effects have included impairment in cell-mediated immunity and increased susceptibility to bacterial, viral, fungal, and parasitic infections.  Immune responses to skin tests have been suppressed.[Ref]
Corticosteroid myopathy presenting as weakness and wasting of the proximal limb and girdle muscles has occurred.  Symptoms resolved following cessation of therapy.  Corticosteroids inhibit intestinal absorption and increase urinary excretion of calcium leading to bone resorption and bone loss.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included myopathy, osteoporosis, vertebral compression fractures, tendon rupture (particularly the Achilles tendon), pathologic fracture of long bones, and aseptic necrosis of bone.  Aseptic necrosis has been reported to most often affect the femoral head.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have included increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and posterior subcapsular cataracts.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects have included psychoses, personality or behavioral changes, and pseudotumor cerebri.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included bruising, ecchymosis, petechiae, striae, delayed/impaired wound healing, acne, hirsutism, and hyperpigmentation of the skin and nails.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included platelet alterations resulting in thrombolic events, thrombocytopenia, and lymphopenia.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included reversible increases in serum transaminase and alkaline phosphatase concentrations.[Ref]
Other side effects have included a glucocorticoid withdrawal syndrome (not related to adrenal insufficiency) following abrupt discontinuation of corticosteroid.[Ref]
Pseudorheumatism, or glucocorticoid-withdrawal syndrome not related to adrenal insufficiency has occurred on withdrawal of corticosteroids.  Patients have experienced anorexia, nausea, vomiting, lethargy, headache, fever, arthralgias, myalgias, and postural hypotension.  Symptoms resolved when corticosteroid therapy was reinstated.[Ref]
Neurologic system side effects have included convulsions, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudotumor cerebri), vertigo, and headache.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included allergic skin rash, maculopapular rash, and urticaria.  Anaphylactoid reactions have occurred with corticosteroid use.[Ref]
1. Chobanian AV, Volicer L, Tifft CP, Gavras H, Liang CS, Faxon D "Mineralocorticoid-induced hypertension in patients with orthostatic hypotension." N Engl J Med 301 (1979): 68-73
2. "Product Information. Florinef Acetate (fludrocortisone)." Bristol-Myers Squibb, Princeton, NJ. 
3. Willis FR, Byrne GC, Jones TW "Fludrocortisone induced heart failure in Addison's disease." J Paediatr Child Health 30 (1994): 280-1
4. Bhattacharyya A, Tymms DJ "Heart failure with fludrocortisone in Addison's disease." J R Soc Med 91 (1998): 433-4
5. Nicholls MG, Ramsay LE, Boddy K, Fraser R, Morton JJ, Robertson JI "Mineralocorticoid-induced blood pressure, electrolyte, and hormone changes, and reversal with spironolactone, in healthy men." Metabolism 28 (1979): 584-93
6. Whitworth JA, Butkus A, Coghlan JP, Denton DA, Mills EH, Spence CD, Scoggins BA "9-alpha-Fluorocortisol-induced hypertension: a review." J Hypertens 4 (1986): 133-9
7. Burns A, Brown TM, Semple P "Extreme metabolic alkalosis with fludrocortisone therapy." Postgrad Med J 59 (1983): 506-7
8. Hene RJ, Koomans HA, Rabelink AJ, Boer P, Dorhout Mees EJ "Mineralocorticoid activity and the excretion of an oral potassium load in normal man." Kidney Int 34 (1988): 697-703
9. Cappuccio FP, Markandu ND, MacGregor GA "Renal handling of calcium and phosphate during mineralocorticoid administration in normal subjects." Nephron 48 (1988): 280-3
10. Thompson WF "Psychiatric aspects of Addison's disease: report of a case." Med Ann Dist Columbia 42 (1973): 62-4
Not all side effects for Florinef may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Abdominal pain
agitation or combativeness 
anxiety
back or rib pain 
blindness
bloating
bloody or black, sticky stools
blurred vision
burning in stomach
 changes in skin color
chest pain or tightness
chills
confusion
 constipation
convulsions
 cough
coughing up blood
 darkened urine
decrease in height
decreased range of motion
decreased urine output
decreased vision
 depression
difficulty swallowing
 dry mouth
expressed fear of impending death
eye pain
eyeballs bulge out of eye sockets
fainting or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position
fast or slow heartbeat
fever
flushed dry skin
fractures in arms or legs without any injury 
fractures in the neck or back
 fruit-like breath odor
hallucinations
headache
heartburn
 hives
increased fat deposits on face, neck, and trunk
increased hunger
 increased thirst
increased urination
indigestion
irregular breathing or shortness of breath
irregular heartbeat
joint pain
lack or slowing of normal growth in children
walking with a limp
loss of appetite
loss of consciousness 
muscle cramps or pain
 nausea or vomiting
nervousness
 pain, tenderness, or swelling of foot or leg
pains in stomach or side, possibly radiating to the back
 patients taking oral medicines or insulin for diabetes may need to increase the amount they take
pounding in the ears
problems with wound healing
redness and itching of skin
redness of eyes
redness of face
severe or continuing dizziness
severe weakness of arms and legs
skin rash
sweating
 swelling of face, fingers, feet, or lower legs
 swelling of nasal passages, face, or eyelids
swollen neck veins
tearing of eyes
 unexplained weight loss
unusual tiredness or weakness 
vision changes
weight gain
wheezing
yellow eyes or skin


Acne, pimples
bruising, large, flat, blue or purplish patches in the skin
change in color of skin or nails
increased sweating
loss of muscle mass
menstrual changes 
muscle weakness
reddish purple lines on arms, face, legs, trunk, or groin
 sleeplessness, trouble sleeping, unable to sleep
 small, red, or purple spots on skin
swelling of abdominal or stomach area, full or bloated feeling or pressure in the stomach 
thin, fragile skin
unusual increase in hair growth

