Generic Name: ofloxacin
Applies to ofloxacin: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by ofloxacin (the active ingredient contained in Floxin). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking ofloxacin:
Some of the side effects that can occur with ofloxacin may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to ofloxacin: intravenous solution, oral tablet
This drug was generally well tolerated, and side effects were mild in nature.  In clinical trials, 11% of patients experienced side effects.  Therapy was discontinued due to side effects in 4% of patients.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal pain and cramps, dry mouth, flatulence, gastrointestinal distress, constipationUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Abdominal painRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Enterocolitis (sometimes hemorrhagic)Frequency not reported: DyspepsiaPostmarketing reports: Pseudomembranous colitis, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, intestinal perforation, hiccough, pyrosis, painful oral mucosa, pancreatitis, stomatitis[Ref]
The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms has been reported during or after antimicrobial therapy.Dyspepsia, flatulence, and constipation have also been reported during postmarketing experience.  According to some authorities, pseudomembranous colitis was reported very rarely.[Ref]
Seizures were more likely to occur in elderly patients and in patients with renal dysfunction.Cases of sensory or sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy (affecting small and/or large axons) resulting in paresthesias, hypoesthesias, dysesthesias, and weakness have been reported.A survey reported 6 cases of peripheral neuropathy associated with this drug.  In 1 case, a 49-year-old female developed diffuse numbness, "pins and needles" sensation, burning pain, memory loss, visual impairment, joint pain, palpitations, altered sense of smell, insomnia, tinnitus, and severe panic attacks, with some symptoms persisting after 3 years.Disturbances of taste, smell, hearing, and equilibrium were usually reversible after the drug was stopped.Syncope and tremor have also been reported during postmarketing experience.  According to some authorities, peripheral sensory neuropathy, peripheral sensory motor neuropathy, and convulsion were reported very rarely.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Headache, dizziness, dysgeusia, somnolenceUncommon (0.1% to 1%): VertigoRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Paresthesia, parosmiaVery rare (less than 0.01%): Extrapyramidal symptoms or other disorders of muscular coordination, tinnitus, hearing lossFrequency not reported: Seizures, cognitive change, syncope, tremor, decreased hearing acuity, sensory axonal polyneuropathy, sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy, idiopathic intracranial hypertensionPostmarketing reports: Peripheral neuropathy (may be irreversible), peripheral sensory neuropathy, convulsion, peripheral sensory motor neuropathy, ataxia, incoordination, exacerbation of myasthenia gravis, exacerbation of extrapyramidal disorders, dysphasia, lightheadedness, taste disturbance, smell disturbance, hearing disturbance, equilibrium disturbance, dyskinesia, ageusia, hearing impaired[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Increased serum creatinine, increased BUNVery rare (less than 0.01%): Acute renal failureFrequency not reported: Nephrogenic diabetic insipidusPostmarketing reports: Renal calculi, renal failure, interstitial nephritis, acute interstitial nephritis[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Elevated AST, elevated ALTRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Elevated liver enzymes (ALT, AST, LDH, GGT, alkaline phosphatase), elevated blood bilirubinVery rare (less than 0.01%): Cholestatic jaundicePostmarketing reports: Hepatic dysfunction (including hepatic necrosis, jaundice [cholestatic or hepatocellular], hepatitis [including severe cases]), hepatic failure (including fatal cases), elevated liver function tests (including GGT, LDH, bilirubin), severe liver injury (including acute liver failure [sometimes fatal])[Ref]
Severe liver injury (including cases of acute liver failure [sometimes fatal]) has been reported, primarily in patients with underlying liver disorders.[Ref]
Anemia (including hemolytic), leukopenia, and thrombocytopenia have also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Anemia, leukopenia, leukocytosis, neutropenia, neutrophilia, increased band forms, lymphocytopenia, eosinophilia, lymphocytosis, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytosis, elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rateVery rare (less than 0.01%): Hemolytic anemiaPostmarketing reports: Aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, pancytopenia, agranulocytosis, reversible bone marrow depression, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, petechiae, prothrombin time prolongation, ecchymosis/bruising, bone marrow failure[Ref]
IV formulation:-Common (1% to 10%): Injection site reactions (including phlebitis, swelling, erythema, pain)[Ref]
Rare (0.01% to 0.1%): TendinitisVery rare (less than 0.01%): Arthralgia, myalgia, tendon rupture (e.g., Achilles tendon)Postmarketing reports: Muscular weakness, rhabdomyolysis, myopathy, muscle tear, muscle rupture, ligament rupture, arthritis[Ref]
Tendinitis and tendon rupture have also been reported during postmarketing experience.  Tendon rupture (sometimes bilateral) has been reported within 48 hours of starting therapy.[Ref]
Torsades de pointes were reported primarily in patients with risk factors for QT prolongation.  This drug was associated with 2 cases of torsades de pointes reported to the US FDA between 1996 and 2001.Tachycardia has also been reported during postmarketing experience.  Tachycardia and hypotension have occurred during IV infusion (during postmarketing experience); in very rare cases, such a decrease in blood pressure has been severe.[Ref]
Rare (0.01% to 0.1%): Tachycardia, hypotensionFrequency not reported: Cardiac arrest, hypertension, palpitations, vasodilationPostmarketing reports: Cerebral thrombosis, hypotension/shock, ventricular arrhythmias, ECG QT prolonged, torsades de pointes[Ref]
According to some authorities, anaphylactic reaction and anaphylactoid reaction were reported rarely and anaphylactic shock and anaphylactoid shock were reported very rarely.[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Anaphylactic reactions/shock, anaphylactoid reactions/shock, serum sickness[Ref]
Hematuria has also been reported during postmarketing experience.Crystalluria and cylindruria have been reported with other quinolones.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): External genital pruritus in women, vaginitis, vaginal discharge, glucosuria, proteinuria, alkalinuria, hyposthenuria, hematuria, pyuriaFrequency not reported: Dysuria; urinary frequency; urinary retention; dysmenorrhea; menorrhagia; metrorrhagia; burning, irritation, pain, and rash of the female genitaliaPostmarketing reports: Vaginal candidiasis, albuminuria, candiduria, anuria, polyuriaQuinolones:-Frequency not reported: Crystalluria, cylindruria[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Rash, pruritusRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Urticaria, hyperhidrosis, pustular rashVery rare (less than 0.01%): Erythema multiforme, toxic epidermal necrolysis, drug eruption, vascular purpura, vasculitis (sometimes leading to skin necrosis)Frequency not reported: Angioedema, diaphoresisPostmarketing reports: Hyperpigmentation, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema nodosum, exfoliative dermatitis, photosensitivity/phototoxicity reaction, vesiculobullous eruption, purpura, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, drug rash[Ref]
A 75-year-old male developed toxic epidermal necrolysis and died of complications after receiving a total of 23.6 g of this drug orally over 51 days.Angioedema, erythema multiforme, and toxic epidermal necrolysis have also been reported during postmarketing experience.  According to some authorities, angioedema was reported rarely and photosensitivity was reported very rarely.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Visual disturbancesUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Eye irritationFrequency not reported: PhotophobiaPostmarketing reports: Diplopia, nystagmus, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, uveitisQuinolones:-Frequency not reported: Ophthalmologic abnormalities (including cataracts, multiple punctate lenticular opacities)[Ref]
Ophthalmologic abnormalities (including cataracts and multiple punctate lenticular opacities) have been reported with other quinolones.[Ref]
Asthenia has also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Fatigue, chest pain, fever, trunk pain, elevated alkaline phosphataseUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Fungal infection, pathogen resistanceRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Hot flushesFrequency not reported: Asthenia, chills, malaise, edema, extremity pain, pain, thirst, weight lossPostmarketing reports: Elevated serum triglycerides, elevated serum cholesterol, elevated serum potassium, pyrexia, pain (including back, chest, extremities)[Ref]
Dyspnea (including severe dyspnea) and bronchospasm have also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): PharyngitisUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Cough, nasopharyngitisRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Dyspnea, bronchospasmFrequency not reported: Respiratory arrest, rhinorrhea, epistaxisPostmarketing reports: Allergic pneumonitis, pulmonary edema, stridor[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Decreased appetite, hyperglycemia, hypoglycemiaRare (0.01% to 0.1%): AnorexiaPostmarketing reports: Acidosis, hypoglycemic coma, porphyria attacks[Ref]
Hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia (especially in diabetic patients on insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents) have also been reported during postmarketing experience.  Attacks of porphyria have been reported in patients with porphyria.[Ref]
In 1 patient, a psychotic reaction to this drug presented with irritability, restlessness, insomnia, and irrational fear.  The reaction was treated with haloperidol and resolved within 48 hours.  One study suggests that the central nervous system effects of quinolones may be due to an interaction with the benzodiazepine-gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor complex and may be controlled by benzodiazepine administration.Agitation, nervousness, psychotic reactions, and nightmares have also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Insomnia, nervousness, sleep disordersUncommon (0.1% to 1%): AgitationRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Anxiety, depression, confusional state, psychotic disorder/reactions (e.g., hallucination), nightmaresFrequency not reported: Dream abnormality, euphoria, hallucinationsPostmarketing reports: Restlessness, psychotic disorder and depression with self-endangering behavior (including suicidal ideation, suicide attempt), suicidal thoughts or acts, disorientation, paranoia, phobia, aggressiveness/hostility, manic reaction, emotional lability[Ref]
1. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
2. "Product Information. Floxin (ofloxacin)." Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation, Raritan, NJ. 
3. Guay DR, Opsahl JA, McMahon FG, Vargas R, Matzke GR, Flor S "Safety and pharmacokinetics of muliple doses of intravenous ofloxacin in healthy volunteers." Antimicrob Agents Chemother 36 (1992): 308-12
4. Todd PA, Faulds D "Ofloxacin: a reappraisal of its antimicrobial activity, pharmacology, and therapeutic use." Drugs 42 (1991): 825-76
5. Smith JT "Ofloxacin, a bactericidal antibacterial." Chemotherapy 37 (1991): 2-13
6. Wendel GD, Cox SM, Bawdon RE, Theriot SK, Heard MC, Nobles BJ "A randomized trial of ofloxacin versus cefoxitin and doxycycline in the outpatients treatment of acute salpingitis." Am J Obstet Gynecol 164 (1991): 1390-6
7. Basista MP "Randomized study to evaluate efficacy and safety of ofloxacin vs trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole in treatment of uncomplicated urinary tract infection." Urology 37 (1991): 21-7
8. Marchbanks CR, Dudley MN, Flor S, Beals B "Pharmacokinetics and safety of single rising doses of ofloxacin in healthy volunteers." Pharmacotherapy 12 (1992): 45-9
9. Tack KJ, Smith JA "The safety profile of ofloxacin." Am J Med 87 (1989): s78-81
10. Giamarellou H, Tsagarakis J "Efficacy and tolerance of oral ofloxacin in treating various infections." Drugs 34 (1987): 119-23
11. Dan M, Samra Z "Clostridium difficile colitis associated with ofloxacin therapy." Am J Med 87 (1989): 479
12. Fostini R, Girelli M, Dalle VP, Benedetti M, Recchia G "Safety profile of ofloxacin in elderly patients." Drugs Exp Clin Res 14 (1988): 393-5
13. Kohler RB, Arkins N, Tack KJ "Accidental overdose of intravenous ofloxacin with benign outcome." Antimicrob Agents Chemother 35 (1991): 1239-40
14. Walton GD, Hon JK, Mulpur TG "Ofloxacin-induced seizure." Ann Pharmacother 31 (1997): 1475-7
15. Cohen JS "Peripheral neuropathy associated with fluoroquinolones." Ann Pharmacother 35 (2001): 1540-7
16. Getenet JC, Croisile B, Vighetto A, et al. "Idiopathic intracranial hypertension after ofloxacin treatment." Acta Neurol Scand 87 (1993): 503-4
17. Traeger SM, Bonfiglio MF, Wilson JA, Martin BR, Nackes NA "Seizures associated with ofloxacin therapy." Clin Infect Dis 21 (1995): 1504-6
18. Fennig S, Mauas L "Ofloxacin-induced delirium." J Clin Psychiatry 53 (1992): 137-8
19. Thomas RJ, Regan DR "Association of a tourette-like syndrome with ofloxacin." Ann Pharmacother 30 (1996): 138-41
20. Unseld E, Ziegler G, Gemeinhardt A, Janssen U, Klotz U "Possible interaction of fluoroquinolones with benzodiazepine-GABA-receptorn complex." Br J Clin Pharmacol 30 (1990): 63-70
21. Carro PG, Huidobro MLL, Zabala AP, Vicente EM "Fatal subfulminant hepatic failure with ofloxacin." Am J Gastroenterol 95 (2000): 1606
22. Hofer T, Becker EW, Weigand K, Berg PA "Demonstration of sensititzed lymphocytes to trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole and ofloxacin in a patient with cholestatic hepatitis." J Hepatol 15 (1992): 262-3
23. Blum A "Ofloxacin-induced acute severe hepatitis." South Med J 84 (1991): 1158
24. Huminer D, Cohen JD, Majadla R, Dux S "Hypersensitivity vasculitis due to ofloxacin." Br Med J 299 (1989): 303
25. Pace JL, Gatt P "Fatal vasculitis associated with ofloxacin." BMJ 299 (1989): 658
26. Khaliq Y,  Zhanel GG "Fluoroquinolone-Associated Tendinopathy: A Critical Review of the Literature." Clin Infect Dis 36 (2003): 1404-1410
27. Baril L, Maisonobe T, JassonMolinier M, Haroche J, Bricaire F, Caumes E "Acute rhabdomyolysis during treatment with ofloxacin - A case report." Clin Infect Dis 29 (1999): 1598-9
28. Frothingham R "Rates of torsades de pointes associated with ciprofloxacin, ofloxacin, levofloxacin, gatifloxacin, and moxifloxacin." Pharmacotherapy 21 (2001): 1468-72
29. Owens RC Jr,  Ambrose PG "Torsades de pointes associated with fluoroquinolones." Pharmacotherapy 22 (2002): 663-8; discussion 668-72
30. Berger RE "Rates of torsades de pointes associated with ciprofloxacin, ofloxacin, levofloxacin, gatifloxacin, and moxifloxacin." J Urol 174 (2005): 165
31. Briasoulis A,  Agarwal V,  Pierce WJ "QT Prolongation and Torsade de Pointes Induced by Fluoroquinolones: Infrequent Side Effects from Commonly Used Medications." Cardiology 120 (2011): 103-110
32. Tsuda S, Kato K, Karashima T, Inou YH, Sasai Y "Toxic pustuloderma induced by ofloxacin." Acta Derm Venereol 73 (1993): 382-4
33. Melde SL "Ofloxacin: a probable cause of toxic epidermal necrolysis." Ann Pharmacother 35 (2001): 1388-90
34. Maunz G, Conzett T, Zimmerli W "Cutaneous vasculitis associated with fluoroquinolones." Infection 37 (2009): 466-8
35. Bharani A,  Kumar H "Diabetes inspidus induced by ofloxacin." BMJ 323 (2001): 547
Not all side effects for Floxin may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Abdominal or stomach pain
anxiety
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
blurred vision
body aches or pain
chest pain
chills
cloudy urine
cold sweats
coma
confusion
congestion
cool, pale skin
cough
depression
diarrhea
dry mouth
dryness or soreness of the throat
eye pain
fast heartbeat
fever
flushed, dry skin
fruit-like breath odor
general feeling of illness
headache
hoarseness
increased hunger
increased thirst
increased urination
lower back or side pain
nausea
nightmares
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
pus in the urine
runny nose
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
sweating
swollen glands
tender, swollen glands in the neck
trouble with swallowing
troubled breathing with exertion
unexplained weight loss
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
voice changes
vomiting


Burning while urinating
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
change in color vision
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
convulsions
decrease in frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
decreased hearing or any change in hearing
difficult or painful urination
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
difficulty seeing at night
difficulty with moving
discouragement
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
false or unusual sense of well-being
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
feeling of warmth or heat
feeling sad or empty
flushing or redness of the skin, especially on the face and neck
hearing loss
hives or welts, itching, or skin rash
increased need to urinate
increased sensitivity of the eyes to sunlight
increased sweating
irritability
joint pain
lack of appetite
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of bladder control
loss of interest or pleasure
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pains or stiffness
muscle spasm or jerking of all extremities
no blood pressure or pulse
no breathing
passing urine more often
pounding in the ears
redness, soreness, or itching skin
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
sensation of spinning
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
slow or fast heartbeat
sores, welting, or blisters
stopping of the heart
sudden loss of consciousness
swelling
swollen joints
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
trouble concentrating
trouble performing routine tasks
trouble sleeping
unconsciousness


Abdominal or stomach tenderness
actions that are out of control
back, leg, or stomach pains
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating
blue lips and fingernails
burning, dry, or itching eyes
changes in behavior
confusion about identity, place, and time
coughing that sometimes produces a pink frothy sputum
coughing up blood
cracks in the skin
crying
dark-colored urine
darkening of the skin
delusions of persecution, mistrust, suspiciousness, and/or combativeness
depersonalization
diarrhea, watery and severe, which may also be bloody
difficulty with breathing, chewing, speaking, or swallowing
discharge or excessive tearing
double vision
drooling
drooping eyelids
dysphoria
euphoria
feeling of discomfort
general body swelling
heartburn
high fever
hyperventilation
increased blood pressure
increased menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding
increased sensitivity of the skin to sunlight
increased sweating
indigestion
inflammation of the joints
irregular heartbeats
irregular or slow heart rate
itching of the vagina or outside the genitals
loss of ability to use or understand speech or language
loss of appetite
loss of balance control
loss of heat from the body
mental depression
mood or mental changes
muscle weakness
noisy breathing
nosebleeds
numbness of the hands
pain during sexual intercourse
pain in the ankles or knees
pain, inflammation, or swelling in the calves, shoulders, or hands
painful, red lumps under the skin, mostly on the legs
paralysis
prolonged bleeding from cuts
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
quick to react or overreact emotionally
rapidly changing moods
red or black, tarry stools
red or dark brown urine
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
red, swollen skin
redness or other discoloration of the skin
redness, pain, or swelling of the eye, eyelid, or inner lining of the eyelid
restlessness
scaly skin
severe abdominal or stomach pain, cramping, or burning
severe sunburn
severe tiredness
shaking
shuffling walk
stiffness of the limbs
stomach pain, continuing
swelling of the face, fingers, or lower legs
swollen lymph glands
talking, feeling, and acting with excitement
thick, white, curd-like vaginal discharge without odor or with mild odor
thoughts of killing oneself
twisting movements of the body
uncontrolled eye movements
uncontrolled movements, especially of the face, neck, and back
unexplained bleeding or bruising
unpleasant breath odor
unsteadiness or awkwardness
unusual behavior, such as disorientation to time or place, failure to recognize people, hyperactivity, or restlessness, especially in children using 2% cyclopentolate
unusual weight loss
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
weakness in the arms, hands, legs, or feet
weight gain
yellowing of the eyes or skin


Change in taste
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
full feeling
loss of taste
passing gas
runny nose

