Commonly reported side effects of flutamide include: diarrhea.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking flutamide, get emergency help immediately:
In general, flutamide has been used concomitantly with LHRH agonists or after bilateral orchiectomy.  Therefore, little data are available on the side effects of flutamide alone.
Nineteen cases of severe flutamide related hepatotoxicity were reported by the FDA in 1993.  The flutamide related hepatitis developed 56 to 80 days after the beginning of therapy and was mainly cytolytic.  Four of the cases involved massive hepatic necrosis with fatal outcomes.  The mechanism of action was believed to be direct hepatotoxicity.In a study of 1,091 patients with prostate cancer treated with flutamide and an LHRH agonist, four patients (0.36%) developed severe hepatotoxicity in the first four weeks of therapy.  Serum aminotransferases increased more than four times normal values.  Alkaline phosphatase increased more than six times normal values in one patient.  Total bilirubin was elevated in two patients.  Only two patients developed clinical manifestations, including fatigue, anorexia, weight loss, nausea, and vomiting.  None of the remaining 1,089 patients had significant elevations in liver function tests although transient, mild elevations in AST and ALT occasionally occurred.In most cases, discontinuation of flutamide results in resolution of symptoms.A case of fatal liver complications has been reported where the drug was prescribed for an 18 year old woman for the treatment of minor acne and hirsutism.  The risk of lethal hepatic complications makes the risk-benefit ratio unacceptable when flutamide is being considered to treat disorders such as polycystic ovaries, and especially for benign complaints such as alopecia, hirsutism, and acne.
Hepatic side effects have included elevations in serum transaminases as well as cases of cholestatic jaundice, hepatic necrosis, hepatic encephalopathy, and fatal hepatotoxicity.
Hematologic side effects have included anemia (6%), leukopenia (3%), and thrombocytopenia (1%).  Flutamide has also been implicated in cases of methemoglobinemia, sulphemoglobinemia and neutropenia.  In addition, eosinophilia has been reported in association with some cases of hepatotoxicity.
Nervous system side effects have been reported in less than 1% of patients and include drowsiness, dizziness, sedation, and confusion.
Renal side effects including renal failure (in association with severe hepatotoxicity) have been reported.
Cardiovascular side effects reported include hypertension (1%), thromboembolism, and edema.
Pseudoporphyria (blisters, increased skin fragility, and erosions in sun-exposed areas) was reported in a 68-year-old man being treated for prostate cancer with appropriate doses of flutamide and goserelin.  The patient presented with skin fragility and blisters on the back of the hands.   After replacing the flutamide with bicalutamide, the lesions healed.
Dermatologic side effects including rash (3%), alopecia, sweating, and cases of photosensitivity/photoallergy have been reported.   One case of flutamide-induced pseudoporphyria has also been reported.
Endocrine side effects including hot flashes (29% to 63%), gynecomastia (up to 19%), fever, and breast tenderness (7%) have been reported.
Two female patients receiving flutamide for the treatment of bulimia nervosa noted decreased symptoms within a week after initiation of therapy.  Both patients relapsed after the drug was later withdrawn.
Gastrointestinal side effects including mucositis, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, anorexia, and either weight loss or gain have been reported.
Musculoskeletal side effects including muscle cramps in up to 15% of patients have been reported.
Psychiatric side effects including depression, anxiety, and nervousness have been reported.  One case report of mania has also been reported.
Genitourinary side effects including impotence and loss of libido have been reported.
Several studies have described a flutamide withdrawal syndrome in which significant reductions in prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels are noted following the discontinuation of flutamide therapy in patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer.Several studies have evaluated the effect of concurrent discontinuation of flutamide and initiation of aminoglutethimide therapy in patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer.  In one study, serum PSA levels declined by more than 80% for more than four weeks in 14 out of 29 (48%) patients.  Clinical improvement was also noted.  Some authors propose prolonged flutamide therapy may result in the selective proliferation of cancer cell lines with androgen receptors which recognize hydroxyflutamide as an androgenic agonist.  Additional research is needed to fully evaluate this phenomenon.
Other side effects have included flutamide withdrawal syndrome.
Respiratory side effects including one case of pneumonitis have been reported.
Black, tarry stools
bloody or cloudy urine
continuing diarrhea
continuing stomach pain
difficult, burning, or painful urination
frequent urge to urinate
pale skin
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Blurred vision
chest pain
chills
cough
difficulty with breathing
dizziness
drowsiness
fever
headache
nervousness
pounding in the ears
shortness of breath
slow or fast heartbeat
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swelling
swollen glands
Abdominal or stomach pain
clay-colored stools
dark urine
general tiredness and weakness
itching
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
nausea and vomiting
rash
tumor
unpleasant breath odor
upper right abdominal pain
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes and skin
Back, leg, or stomach pains
bleeding gums
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bluish-colored lips, fingernails, or palms
discoloration of the urine
dizziness or lightheadedness
flushing or redness of the skin
general body swelling
headache
itching
joint or muscle pain
nosebleeds
rapid heart rate
red irritated eyes
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
unusually warm skin
Goosebumps
shakiness and unsteady walk
tearing of the eyes
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination
weight loss
Decreased interest in sexual intercourse
diarrhea
feeling of warmth
inability to have or keep an erection
indigestion
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
passing of gas
redness of the face, neck, arms and occasionally, upper chest
stomach pain, fullness, or discomfort
sudden sweating
swelling of the breasts or breast soreness in both females and males
Depression
drowsiness
fear or nervousness
mood or mental changes