Generic Name: levoleucovorin calcium
More frequent side effects include: diarrhea.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to levoleucovorin calcium: intravenous powder for solution, intravenous solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by levoleucovorin calcium (the active ingredient contained in Fusilev). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking levoleucovorin calcium, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with levoleucovorin calcium may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to levoleucovorin calcium: intravenous powder for injection, intravenous solution
Gastrointestinal side effects including stomatitis (37.5%), vomiting (37.5%), nausea (18.8%), diarrhea (6.3%), dyspepsia (6.3%), and typhlitis (6.3%) have been reported.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects including dyspnea (6.3%) have been reported.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects including dermatitis (6.3%), pruritus, and rash have been reported.[Ref]
Other side effects including confusion (6.3%), taste perversion (6.3), temperature change, and rigors have been reported.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects including neuropathy (6.3%) have been reported.[Ref]
Renal side effects including abnormal renal function (6.3%) have been reported.[Ref]
Other side effects including confusion (6.3%), taste perversion (6.3), temperature change, and rigors have been reported.
1. "Product Information. Levoleucovorin (levoleucovorin)." Spectrum Chemical, Gardena, CA. 
Not all side effects for Fusilev may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Cloudy urine
decrease in urine output or decrease in urine-concentrating ability
difficult or labored breathing
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
lack or loss of strength
shortness of breath
stomach cramps, tenderness, or pain
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
watery or bloody diarrhea
wheezing


Feeling unusually cold
shivering


Acid or sour stomach
bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
belching
blistering, crusting, irritation, itching, reddening, or swelling of the skin
burning, tingling, numbness, or pain in the hands, arms, feet, or legs
change in taste
cracked, dry, or scaly skin
decreased appetite
diarrhea
hair loss or thinning of the hair
heartburn
indigestion
loss of appetite
mood or mental changes
nausea
sensation of pins and needles
stabbing pain
stomach discomfort or upset
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
vomiting
weight loss


Rash

