Applies to gadofosveset trisodium: injection solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by gadofosveset trisodium. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking gadofosveset trisodium, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with gadofosveset trisodium may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to gadofosveset trisodium: intravenous solution
Hypersensitivity side effects have included anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reactions.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus.[Ref]
Local side effects have included injection site bruising, burning sensation, and venipuncture site bruise.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included headache, paresthesia, and dizziness (excluding vertigo).[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included vasodilatation and hypertension.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea and dysgeusia.[Ref]
General side effects have included feeling cold.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Vasovist (gadofosveset trisodium)." Bayer Pharmaceutical Inc, West Haven, CT. 
Not all side effects for gadofosveset trisodium may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Cough
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
hives
itching
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
shortness of breath
skin rash
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
wheezing


Blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
feeling faint, dizzy, or lightheaded
feeling of warmth or heat
flushing or redness of the skin, especially on the face and neck
headache
nervousness
pounding in the ears
slow or fast heartbeat
sweating


Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site
change in taste
feeling cold
loss of taste
nausea

