Commonly reported side effects of galantamine include: nausea and vomiting. Other side effects include: dizziness, dyspepsia, fatigue, headache, weight loss, diarrhea, and anorexia.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to galantamine: oral capsule extended release, oral solution, oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by galantamine. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking galantamine:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking galantamine, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with galantamine may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to galantamine: oral capsule extended release, oral solution, oral tablet
Common (1% to 10%): BradycardiaUncommon (0.1% to 1%): First degree atrioventricular block, palpitations, sinus bradycardia, supraventricular extrasystoles, flushing, hypotensionFrequency not reported: Postural hypotension, dependent edema, cardiac failure, myocardial ischemia or infarction, atrial arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation and supraventricular tachycardia, QT prolonged, bundle branch block, T-wave inversion, chest pain and ventricular tachycardiaPostmarketing reports: Hypertension[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Hyperhidrosis
Very common (10% or more): Nausea, vomitingCommon (1% to 10%): Diarrhea, abdominal pain, upper abdominal pain, dyspepsia, stomach discomfort, abdominal discomfortUncommon (0.1% to 1%): RetchingPostmarketing reports: Upper and lower GI bleeding, stomach discomfort, and abdominal discomfort.[Ref]
The most common side effects associated with discontinuation were nausea, vomiting, decreased appetite, dizziness, diarrhea, headache, decreased weight, and abdominal pain.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infection, hematuriaFrequency not reported: Increased libido[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Anemia[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Hepatitis, increased hepatic enzymes
Postmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity
Common (1% to 10%): Decreased appetite, decreased weight, anorexiaUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Dehydration
Common (1% to 10%): Muscle spasmsUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Muscular weakness
Common (1% to 10%): Dizziness, headache, tremor, syncope, lethargy, somnolenceUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Dysgeusia, hypersomnia, paresthesiaFrequency not reported: Insomnia, leg cramps, transient ischemic attacks, cerebrovascular accidentsPostmarketing reports: Tinnitus[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Blurred vision
Common (1% to 10%): Fatigue, asthenia, malaiseUncommon (0.1% to 1%): FallFrequency not reported: Death in patients with mild cognitive impairment, fever
Common (1% to 10%): DepressionFrequency not reported: Apathy, paranoia (disagreeable or terrifying dreams), paranoid reaction, increased libido, delirium, suicidal ideation and suicidePostmarketing reports: Hallucination, visual hallucination, auditory hallucination[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Rhinitis[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Reminyl (galantamine)" Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Titusville, NJ. 
2. "Product Information. Razadyne (galantamine)." Ortho McNeil Pharmaceutical, Raritan, NJ. 
3. Iraqi A,  Hughes TL "An unusual case of nightmares with galantamine." J Am Geriatr Soc 57 (2009): 565
Not all side effects for galantamine may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Chest pain or discomfort
lightheadedness, dizziness, or fainting
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
shortness of breath
slow or irregular heartbeat
unusual tiredness


Blurred vision
confusion
decreased urination
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
dry mouth
fainting
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
feeling of warmth
rapid breathing
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
sunken eyes
sweating
thirst
troubled breathing
unusual tiredness or weakness
wrinkled skin


Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
chills
cough
dark urine
fever
general tiredness and weakness
headache
hoarseness
irritation
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
light-colored stools
nausea and vomiting
nervousness
pounding in the ears
rash, hives, or itching skin
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
redness of the skin
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, hands, or feet
tightness in the chest
troubled swallowing
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
yellow eyes and skin


Confusion
convulsions
irregular, fast or slow, or shallow breathing
muscle weakness
pale or blue lips, fingernails, or skin
severe nausea
stomach cramps
sweating
tearing of the eyes
twitches of the muscle visible under the skin
vomiting


Decreased appetite
weight loss


Acid or sour stomach
belching
discouragement
feeling sad or empty
general feeling of discomfort or illness
heartburn
increased sweating
indigestion
irritability
lack of appetite
lack or loss of strength
loss of interest or pleasure
muscle spasms
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
unusual drowsiness, dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness


Burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
change in taste
dry heaves
loss of taste
unusually deep sleep
unusually long duration of sleep


Continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
hearing loss
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there

