Generic Name: zinc acetate
Applies to zinc acetate: capsules
 Check with your doctor if any of these most COMMON side effects persist or become bothersome:
Nausea; vomiting.
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; itching; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, or tongue); severe vomiting; unusual restlessness; very dry mouth, eyes, or skin.


Applies to zinc acetate: compounding powder, oral capsule
In general, zinc acetate (the active ingredient contained in Galzin) is relatively nontoxic if used at recommended dosages.[Ref]
Although elevations in amylase, lipase and alkaline phosphatase have not been associated with any clinically significant events during clinical trials, it is suggested that liver and pancreatic function be closely monitored during zinc acetate (the active ingredient contained in Galzin) therapy.Hypocalcemia and decreased bone resorption have been demonstrated in animal models receiving high levels of dietary zinc.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included increases in amylase and lipase.[Ref]
Endocrine side effects have included the reduction of high density lipoprotein (HDL) in males.[Ref]
Due to an accompanying decrease in low density lipoproteins (LDL), the LDL/HDL ratio remains relatively unchanged and little risk is assumed in terms of coronary heart disease.  Triglyceride levels have not been shown to be affected.[Ref]
In healthy subjects receiving zinc as a dietary supplement, lymphocyte stimulation, polymorphonuclear migration and phagocytosis were impaired.  The clinical significance of this effect is unknown.[Ref]
Immunologic side effects have included a decrease in the immunologic response.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have NOT included hematologic abnormalities due to iron deficiency anemia.[Ref]
Because zinc competes with the absorption of iron, copper and other minerals, it may be necessary to monitor the patient's iron status for any possible deficiencies.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have been reported the most frequently.  These have included gastrointestinal upset, which may occur in up to 10% of patients.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal irritation appears to be dose-related.To alleviated gastric upset and increase compliance, it has been suggested to administer the first morning dose between breakfast and lunch, rather than before breakfast.[Ref]
1. Yarze JC, Martin P, Munoz SJ, Friedman LS "Wilson's disease: current status." Am J Med 92 (1992): 643-54
2. Brewer GJ "Practical recommendations and new therapies for Wilson's disease." Drugs 50 (1995): 240-9
3. Brewer GJ, Yuzbasiyan-Gurkan V "Wilson disease." Medicine 71 (1992): 139-64
4. Moore R "Bleeding gastric erosion after oral zinc sulphate." Br Med J 1 (1978): 754
5. Walshe JM "Treatment of Wilson's disease with zinc sulphate." Br Med J (Clin Res Ed) 289 (1984): 558-9
6. Anderson LA. Hakojarvi SL, Boudreaux SK "Zinc acetate treatment in Wilson's disease." Ann Pharmacother 32 (1998): 78-87
7. "Product Information. Galzin (zinc acetate)." Gate Pharmaceuticals, Sellersville, PA. 
Not all side effects for Galzin may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
