Generic Name: sulfisoxazole
Applies to sulfisoxazole: oral suspension, oral syrup, oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by sulfisoxazole (the active ingredient contained in Gantrisin). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking sulfisoxazole:
Some of the side effects that can occur with sulfisoxazole may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to sulfisoxazole: compounding powder, oral suspension, oral tablet
In general, although not every side effect listed in the side effects section may have been reported with the use of sulfisoxazole (the active ingredient contained in Gantrisin)  they have all been reported with the use of one or more sulfonamide compounds.Sulfisoxazole was generally well tolerated.  Less than 0.1% of patients experienced serious side effects from sulfisoxazole.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included anaphylaxis, erythema multiforme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome), toxic epidermal necrolysis, angioedema, arteritis and vasculitis, serum sickness, conjunctival and scleral injection, generalized allergic reactions, and allergic myocarditis.[Ref]
The use of sulfonamide antibiotics is associated with large increases in the risk of Stevens-Johnson syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis, although these phenomena are rare as a whole.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included exfoliative dermatitis, rash, pruritus, photosensitivity, periarteritis nodosa, systemic lupus erythematosus, and generalized skin eruptions.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included agranulocytosis, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia, purpura, hemolytic anemia, eosinophilia, clotting disorders including hypoprothrombinemia, hypofibrinogenemia, sulfhemoglobinemia, and methemoglobinemia.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included hepatitis, hepatocellular necrosis, and jaundice.  Elevated liver-associated enzymes have been reported in patients with hepatitis.  Rare cases of hepatic necrosis have been associated with some sulfonamides.[Ref]
Renal side effects have included elevated BUN and creatinine, acute renal failure, nephritis, and nephrosis with oliguria and anuria.  The frequency of renal complications is lower with the more soluble sulfonamides, such as sulfisoxazole (the active ingredient contained in Gantrisin) [Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included crystalluria, hematuria, and urinary retention.
Cardiovascular side effects have included tachycardia, palpitations, syncope, cyanosis, angioedema, arteritis, and vasculitis.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included pseudomembranous colitis, nausea, emesis, anorexia, abdominal pain, diarrhea, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, melena, flatulence, glossitis, stomatitis, enlarged salivary gland, and pancreatitis.
Pseudomembranous colitis has occurred during or after sulfisoxazole therapy.
Nervous system side effects have included headache, dizziness, peripheral neuritis, paresthesia, convulsions, drowsiness, hearing loss, insomnia, tinnitus, vertigo, ataxia, and intracranial hypertension.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects have included psychosis, hallucination, disorientation, depression, anxiety, and apathy.
Other side effects have included edema (including periorbital), pyrexia, weakness, fatigue, lassitude, rigors, flushing, and chills.
Respiratory side effects have included cough, shortness of breath, pulmonary infiltrates, and pneumonitis.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgia and myalgia.
Endocrine side effects have been reported rarely in patients receiving sulfonamides and have included goiter development, diuresis, and hypoglycemia.
1. "Multum Information Services, Inc. Expert Review Panel"  
2. Kounis GN,  Kouni SA,  Chiladakis JA,  Kounis NG "Comment: Mesalamine-Associated Hypersensitivity Myocarditis in Ulcerative Colitis and the Kounis Syndrome (February)." Ann Pharmacother 43 (2009): 393-4
3. Flach A, Peterson J, Mathias T "Photosensitivity to topically applied sulfisoxazole ointment." Arch Ophthalmol 100 (1982): 1286-7
4. Flach A "Photosensitivity to sulfisoxazole ointment." Arch Ophthalmol 99 (1981): 609-10
5. Roujeau JC, Kelly JP, Naldi L, et al. "Medication use and the risk of Stevens-Johnson syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis." N Engl J Med 333 (1995): 1600-7
6. "Product Information. Gantrisin (sulfisoxazole)." Roche Laboratories, Nutley, NJ. 
7. Boyer W, Lake C "Interaction of phenelzine and sulfisoxazole." Am J Psychiatry 140 (1983): 264-5
Not all side effects for Gantrisin may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Anxiety
blurred vision
changes in menstrual periods
chills
cold sweats
coma
confusion
cool, pale skin
decreased sexual ability in males
depression
dizziness
dry, puffy skin
fast heartbeat
feeling cold
headache
increased hunger
nausea
nervousness
nightmares
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
swelling of the front part of the neck
unusual tiredness or weakness
weight gain


Abdominal or stomach pain, cramps, or tenderness
agitation
back, leg, or stomach pains
bleeding gums
bleeding under the skin
blindness or vision changes
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating
bloody or cloudy urine
bloody, black, or tarry stools
bluish color of the fingernails, lips, skin, palms, or nail beds
burning of the face or mouth
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, painful, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
change in the ability to see colors, especially blue or yellow
chest pain
chills
clay-colored stools
clumsiness or unsteadiness
constipation
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
cough or hoarseness
cracks in the skin
dark urine
decrease in frequency of urination
decrease in the amount of urine
diarrhea
diarrhea, watery and severe, which may also be bloody
difficult or painful urination
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
difficulty with breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness or lightheadedness
drowsiness
enlarged salivary glands
fainting
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
feeling of discomfort
feeling unusually cold
fever with or without chills
general body swelling
general feeling of discomfort or illness
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
hair loss
headache
hearing loss
hives or welts
hostility
increased sensitivity of the skin to sunlight
increased thirst
indigestion
inflammation of the joints
irritability
itching
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
lethargy
light-colored stools
loss of appetite and weight
loss of heat from the body
loss of strength or energy
lower back or side pain
muscle aches
muscle pain or weakness
muscle twitching
nosebleeds
not able to pass urine
pain
pain or burning while urinating
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
pale skin
pinpoint red or purple spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rapid heart rate
rapid weight gain
rash
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
red, swollen skin
redness of the white part of the eyes
redness, soreness or itching skin
scaly skin
severe sunburn
shakiness and unsteady walk
shivering
shortness of breath
skin rash
sore throat
soreness of the muscles
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
sores, welting, or blisters
stupor
swelling around the eyes
swelling of face, ankles, hands, feet, or lower legs
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
swollen lymph glands
swollen or painful glands
thickening of bronchial secretions
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing
troubled breathing with exertion
unpleasant breath odor
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual weak feeling
unusual weight gain
unusual weight loss
upper right abdominal pain
vomiting
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
weakness in the hands or feet
weight loss
wheezing
yellow eyes or skin


Confusion about identity, place, and time
difficulty with moving
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
fear
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
feeling that others are watching you or controlling your behavior
feeling that others can hear your thoughts
feeling, seeing, or hearing things that are not there
full feeling
lack of feeling or emotion
passing gas
redness, swelling, or soreness of the tongue
sensation of spinning
severe mood or mental changes
sleeplessness
trouble with sleeping
unable to sleep
uncaring
unusual behavior

