Generic Name: gentamicin ophthalmic
Applies to gentamicin ophthalmic: ophthalmic ointment, ophthalmic solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by gentamicin ophthalmic (the active ingredient contained in Gentak). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking gentamicin ophthalmic:
Some of the side effects that can occur with gentamicin ophthalmic may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:
After application, eye ointments usually cause your vision to blur for a few minutes.


Applies to gentamicin ophthalmic: ophthalmic ointment, ophthalmic solution
Ocular side effects have included burning and irritation upon administration, nonspecific conjunctivitis, conjunctival hyperemia, and conjunctival epithelial defects.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have rarely included thrombocytopenic purpura.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects have rarely included hallucinations.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported.[Ref]
Other side effects have included the development of fungal and bacterial corneal ulcers during therapy.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Garamycin (gentamicin ophthalmic)." Schering Corporation, Kenilworth, NJ. 
Not all side effects for Gentak may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Itching, redness, swelling, or other sign of irritation not present before use of this medicine
redness of eye, eyelid, or inner lining of eyelid


Black, tarry stools; blood in urine or stools; or unusual bleeding or swelling
blurred vision, eye pain, sensitivity to light, and/or tearing
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there


hallucinations 


Burning or stinging

