Generic Name: imatinib
Applies to imatinib: oral capsule, oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by imatinib (the active ingredient contained in Gleevec). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking imatinib:
Some of the side effects that can occur with imatinib may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to imatinib: oral capsule, oral tablet
In general, the most frequent side effects were nausea, vomiting, edema, tumor necrosis, and muscle cramps.  Most events were mild to moderate.  Causality was difficult to determine due to single arm study designs, disease complications, and concurrent medications.  This section lists adverse events regardless of causality.[Ref]
Occurrence of hematologic toxicity appeared to be dependent on dose and disease stage.  The incidence of severe cytopenia was 2 to 3 times higher in blast crisis and accelerated phase than in chronic phase.  Neutropenic episodes had a median duration of 2 to 3 weeks and thrombocytopenic episodes had a duration of 3 to 4 weeks.  They were treated with dose reduction or imatinib (the active ingredient contained in Gleevec) treatment interruption.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have been the major toxicity associated with imatinib and have included cytopenias, especially neutropenia (16% to 35% grade 3, 8% to 46% grade 4), thrombocytopenia (16% to 30% grade 3, less than 1% to 31% grade 4), and anemia (4% to 40% grade 3, less than 1% to 10% grade 4).  Epistaxis was reported in an average of 3% to 12% of patients.  Pancytopenia has been reported infrequently.In pediatric CML patients the most frequent toxicities observed were grade 3 or 4 cytopenias including neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and anemia.  These generally occurred within the first several months of therapy.  In the newly diagnosed CML trial, 1.1% of patients were reported to have grade 3 or 4 hemorrhage.  In the gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) clinical trial, seven patients (5%) had a total of eight events of grade 3 or 4 gastrointestinal bleeds (3 patients), intratumor bleeds (3 patients) or both (1 patient).  Gastrointestinal tumor sites may have been the source of the GI bleeds.[Ref]
Patients should be weighed and monitored regularly for signs and symptoms of fluid retention.  Unexpected rapid weight gain should be carefully investigated and appropriated treatment should be provided.One patient in blast crisis died with pleural effusion, congestive heart failure and renal failure.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included edema, most frequently in the periorbital area or in the lower limbs.  Superficial edema was reported in 51% to 66% of patients.  In the chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) studies, the incidence of edema has been higher in patients over 65 years and with higher dosages.  Severe superficial edema has been reported in 1.5% to 6% of CML patients.  In addition, other severe fluid retention events (e.g., pleural effusion, pericardial effusion, pulmonary edema, and ascites) have been reported in 0.7% of newly diagnosed CML patients, and in 2% to 6% of other adult patients taking imatinib.  There have also been postmarketing reports, including fatalities, of cerebral edema, increased intracranial pressure, cardiac tamponade, and papilledema in patients with CML treated with imatinib.  Severe congestive heart failure and left ventricular dysfunction have been reported occasionally.  Cardiac failure, tachycardia, hypertension, hypotension, flushing, peripheral coldness, subdural hematoma, and increased CPK and LDH have been reported infrequently.  Pericarditis, thrombosis, and embolism have been reported rarely.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included laboratory abnormalities with severe bilirubin and enzyme elevations: elevated bilirubin (0.4 to 3.5% grade 3), elevated alkaline phosphatase (0.2% to 5.1% grade 3, 0% to 0.4% grade 4), elevated AST (SGOT) (1.1% to 2.1% grade 3), elevated ALT (SGPT) (1.7% to 3% grade 3, 0% to 0.4% grade 4).  These abnormalities were managed with dose reduction or treatment interruption and had a median duration of 1 week.[Ref]
Severe elevation of transaminases or bilirubin has been reported in approximately 5% of CML patients.  Treatment was discontinued permanently because of liver laboratory abnormalities in less than 1.0% of CML patients.Fatal liver failure occurred in a study patient who regularly took acetaminophen concurrently.Imatinib may be potentially hepatotoxic with long-term use.  It was associated with severe hepatotoxicity in animal studies, including elevated liver enzymes, hepatocellular necrosis, bile duct necrosis, and bile duct hyperplasia.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea (47% to 68%), vomiting (20.5% to 49%), diarrhea (33% to 49%), dyspepsia (9% to 19%), abdominal pain (20% to 29.9%), anorexia (3% to 10%), constipation (4% to 13%), and gastrointestinal hemorrhage (0.2% to 5%).  Abdominal distention, gastroesophageal reflux, and mouth ulceration have been reported less commonly.  Gastric ulcer, gastroenteritis, and gastritis have been reported infrequently.  Colitis, ileus/intestinal obstruction, and pancreatitis have been reported rarely.  Three cases of splenic rupture have also been reported.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included muscle cramps (25% to 46%), musculoskeletal pain (27% to 39.9%), arthralgia (21% to 28%), myalgia (7% to 22.5%), and weakness (5% to 10%).  Joint swelling has been reported less commonly.  Sciatica as well as joint and muscle stiffness have been reported infrequently.  Rhabdomyolysis has also been reported.  In children, growth retardation has been reported.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included headache (24% to 33.6%) and CNS hemorrhage (0.2% to 4%).  Paresthesia has been reported less commonly.  Syncope, peripheral neuropathy, somnolence, and migraine have been reported infrequently.  Confusion, convulsions, increased intracranial pressure, and cerebral edema (including fatalities) have been reported rarely.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included skin rash (32% to 39%), pruritus (6% to 10%), and petechiae (0.9% to 10%).  Dry skin and alopecia have been less common.  Exfoliative dermatitis, psoriasis, bullous eruption, nail disorder, skin pigmentation changes, photosensitivity reaction and purpura have been reported infrequently.  Vesicular rash, erythema multiforme, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome have been reported rarely.  In one trial (n=133), nine of the patients who had grey hair before treatment had progressive repigmentation of the hair (on the head in eight patients and on the body and the head in one).  Three cases of hyperkeratosis and nail dystrophy have been reported in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia.  Three cases of skin rashes with a peculiar livedoid pattern that were probably associated with imatinib (the active ingredient contained in Gleevec) therapy have also been reported.  Two cases of oral and cutaneous lichenoid reaction have been reported.  A case of follicular mucinosis and a case of severe pustular eruption have been reported.[Ref]
In some cases of bullous dermatologic reactions (including erythema multiforme and Stevens-Johnson syndrome reported during postmarketing surveillance), a recurrent dermatologic reaction was observed upon rechallenge.  Several foreign postmarketing reports have described cases in which patients tolerated the reintroduction of imatinib therapy after resolution or improvement of the bullous reaction.  In these instances, imatinib was resumed at a dose lower than that at which the reaction occurred and some patients also received concomitant treatment with corticosteroids or antihistamines.Hair repigmentation was reported to occur after a median of 5 months.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included nasopharyngitis (5% to 26.9%), cough (9% to 22%), pharyngolaryngeal pain (16.9%), upper respiratory tract infection (16.5%), dyspnea (5% to 16%), and pneumonia (1% to 10%).  Interstitial pneumonitis and pulmonary fibrosis have been reported rarely.[Ref]
Monitoring for SIADH has been recommended for patients receiving high dose imatinib (the active ingredient contained in Gleevec) who develop hyponatremia.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects have included weight increase (4% to 16%) and hypokalemia (2% to 12%).  Hypophosphatemia, decreased weight, and gout have been reported infrequently.  Hyperkalemia and hyponatremia have been reported rarely.  A case of the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) has been reported in a patient receiving high dose imatinib.  Cases of Tumor Lysis Syndrome (TLS), including fatal cases, have been reported.[Ref]
Other side effects have included pyrexia (14% to 38%), fatigue (24% to 37.0%), dizziness (15.8%), insomnia (13.2%), influenza (11.1%), and night sweats (8% to 10%).  Infections including sepsis, herpes simplex, and herpes zoster have been reported infrequently.  Dehydration, appetite disturbances, vertigo, and tinnitus have been reported infrequently.  A case of dental hyperpigmentation and a case of hand-foot syndrome have also been reported.[Ref]
Imatinib (the active ingredient contained in Gleevec) may be potentially nephrotoxic with long term use.  It was associated with focal mineralization and dilation of the renal tubules, tubular nephrosis, and increased BUN and creatinine in animal studies.[Ref]
Renal side effects have included elevated creatinine (1.2% to 1.3% grade 3).  Renal failure, urinary frequency, and hematuria have been reported infrequently.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects including angioedema have been reported infrequently.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects including depression (12.7%), anxiety, and memory impairment have been reported infrequently.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects including breast enlargement, menorrhagia, and sexual dysfunction have been reported infrequently.[Ref]
Breast enlargement has been reported in both female and male patients (gynecomastia).[Ref]
Ocular side effects including periorbital edema, epiphora, conjunctivitis, and blurred vision have been reported.  Conjunctival hemorrhage and dry eye have been reported infrequently.  Macular edema, papilledema, glaucoma, vitreous hemorrhage, and retinal hemorrhage have been reported rarely.[Ref]
In most cases, periorbital edema and epiphora can be managed conservatively.  In severe cases, oral diuretics or topical steroids may improve the signs and symptoms of periorbital edema and epiphora.  In unusually severe cases of periorbital edema, surgical excision of periocular soft tissue may be necessary to improve function.[Ref]
Oncologic side effects have been reported in animal studies including renal adenomas, renal carcinomas, urinary bladder papillomas, and papillomas/carcinomas of the preputial and clitoral gland.  A case of eccrine squamous syringometaplasia has also been reported.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Gleevec (imatinib mesylate)." Novartis Pharmaceuticals, East Hanover, NJ. 
2. Elliott MA,  Mesa RA,  Tefferi A "Adverse events after imatinib mesylate therapy." N Engl J Med 346 (2002): 712-3
3. Druker BJ, Talpaz M, Resta DJ, et al. "Efficacy and safety of a specific inhibitor of the BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase in chronic myeloid leukemia." N Engl J Med 344 (2001): 1031-7
4. Maxwell GL,  Synan I,  Dodge R,  Carroll B,  Clarke-Pearson DL "Pneumatic compression versus low molecular weight heparin in gynecologic oncology surgery: a randomized trial." Obstet Gynecol 98 (2001): 989-95
5. Penel N,  Blay JY,  Adenis A "Imatinib as a possible cause of severe rhabdomyolysis." N Engl J Med 358 (2008): 2746-7
6. Gambillara E,  Laffitte E,  Widmer N, et al. "Severe pustular eruption associated with imatinib and voriconazole in a patient with chronic myeloid leukemia." Dermatology 211 (2005): 363-5
7. Etienne G,  Cony-Makhoul P,  Mahon FX "Imatinib mesylate and gray hair." N Engl J Med 347 (2002): 446
8. Pascual JC,  Matarredona J,  Miralles J,  Conesa V,  Borras-Blasco J "Oral and cutaneous lichenoid reaction secondary to imatinib: report of two cases." Int J Dermatol 45 (2006): 1471-3
9. Yanagi T,  Sawamura D,  Shimizu H "Follicular mucinosis associated with imatinib (STI571)." Br J Dermatol 151 (2004): 1276-8
10. Martinez-Gonzalez MC,  Del Pozo J,  Yebra-Pimentel MT,  Perez M,  Almagro M,  Fonseca E "Livedoid skin reaction probably due to imatinib therapy." Ann Pharmacother 41 (2007): 148-52
11. Deguchi N,  Kawamura T,  Shimizu A, et al. "Imatinib mesylate causes palmoplantar hyperkeratosis and nail dystrophy in three patients with chronic myeloid leukaemia." Br J Dermatol 154 (2006): 1216-8
12. Liapis K,  Apostolidis J,  Charitaki E,  Panitsas F,  Harhalakis N,  Nikiforakis E "Syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone associated with imatinib." Ann Pharmacother 42 (2008): 1882-6
13. Singh N,  Bakhshi S "Imatinib-induced dental hyperpigmentation in childhood cronic myeloid leukemia." J Pediatr Hematol Oncol 29 (2007): 208-9
14. Battistella M,  Fremont G,  Vignon-Pennamen MD,  Gornet JM,  Dubertret L,  Viguier M "Imatinib-induced hand-foot syndrome in a patient with metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor." Arch Dermatol 144 (2008): 1400-2
15. Gambacorti-Passerini C,  Tornaghi L,  Cavagnini F, et al. "Gynaecomastia in men with chronic myeloid leukaemia after imatinib." Lancet 361 (2003): 1954-6
16. Fraunfelder FW,  Solomon J,  Druker BJ,  Esmaeli B,  Kuyl J "Ocular side-effects associated with imatinib mesylate (Gleevec)." J Ocul Pharmacol Ther 19 (2003): 371-5
17. Van de Voorde K,  De Raeve H,  Van Regenmortel N,  Lambert J "Imatinib-induced eccrine squamous syringometaplasia." J Am Acad Dermatol 55(2 Suppl) (2006): S58-9
Not all side effects for Gleevec may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Abdominal or stomach pain, cramping, burning, or tenderness
bleeding from wound after surgery
bleeding gums
bleeding problems
bloating or swelling of the face, hands, lower legs, or feet
blood in the urine
bloody eye
bloody nose
blue lips and fingernails
blurred vision
body aches or pain
chest pain or discomfort
chills
clay-colored stools
cough
coughing that sometimes produces a pink frothy sputum
coughing up blood
decrease in the amount of urine
decreased appetite
decreased urination
diarrhea
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
dry mouth
ear congestion
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
inability to speak
increased menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding
increased thirst
irregular heartbeat
itching or skin rash
joint pain
large, flat, blue, or purplish patches on the skin
loss of appetite
loss of voice
mood changes
muscle aches and pain
muscle cramps
nausea and vomiting
noisy, rattling breathing
nosebleed
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
prolonged bleeding from cuts
rapid weight gain
red, black, bloody, or tarry stools
red or dark brown urine
redness of the eye
seizures
shivering
slurred speech
small red or purple spots on the skin
sneezing
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stuffy or runny nose
sweating
swelling in the legs and ankles
swollen glands
temporary blindness
tightness in the chest
trouble sleeping
troubled breathing at rest
troubled breathing when moving or walking
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
weakness in the arm or leg on one side of the body, sudden and severe
yellow eyes or skin


Anxiety
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
change in vision not present before treatment
chest pain, possibly moving to the left arm, neck, or shoulder
confusion
delayed or slow growth in children
irregular, fast or slow, or shallow breathing
nausea, heartburn, or indigestion, severe and continuing
pain in the bones
red, irritated eyes
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
seeing floaters, veil, or curtain appearing across part of vision
severe abdominal or stomach pain, cramping, or burning
severe constipation
severe vomiting
tenderness, pain, swelling, warmth, skin discoloration, and prominent superficial veins over affected area


Acid or sour stomach
belching
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
difficulty with moving
discouragement
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
fear or nervousness
feeling sad or empty
feeling unusually cold
full or bloated feeling
increased bowel movements
irritability
lack or loss of strength
loose stools
loss of interest or pleasure
muscle stiffness
night sweats
passing gas
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
swollen joints
trouble concentrating
weight loss


Back pain
bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
change in taste
watering of the eyes

