Generic Name: lomustine
Applies to lomustine: oral capsule
Along with their needed effects, medicines like lomustine (the active ingredient contained in Gleostine) can sometimes cause unwanted effects such as blood problems, loss of hair, and other side effects; these are described below. Also, because of the way these medicines act on the body, there is a chance that they might cause other unwanted effects that may not occur until months or years after the medicine is used. These delayed effects may include certain types of cancer, such as leukemia. Discuss these possible effects with your doctor.
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by lomustine. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking lomustine:
Some of the side effects that can occur with lomustine may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to lomustine: oral capsule
Very common (10% or more): Decreased white blood counts (up to 65%), leukopeniaFrequency not reported: Myelosuppression/bone marrow suppression, thrombocytopenia, anemia, pancytopenia decreased hematocrit, bone marrow failure[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Nausea and vomiting (45% to 100%)Very rare (less than 0.01%): DiarrheaFrequency not reported: Stomatitis, anorexia, loss of appetite[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Cholestatic jaundiceFrequency not reported: Elevations in transaminases, alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin levels[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Progressive azotemia, decreased kidney size, renal failure, kidney damage, elevated BUN levels, renal atrophy, renal injury[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Pulmonary toxicity, interstitial pneumonia, lung fibrosisFrequency not reported: Lung infiltration[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Acute leukemia, bone marrow dysplasia, myelodysplastic syndrome[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Apathy, disorientation, confusion, stutteringFrequency not reported: Lethargy, ataxia, dysarthria, abnormal coordination[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Optic atrophy, visual disturbances (e.g., blindness)[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Alopecia[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Gleostine (lomustine)." NextSource Biotechnology, LLC, Miami, FL. 
Not all side effects for Gleostine may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bleeding gums
chest pain
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness


Awkwardness
black, tarry stools
blood in the urine or stools
confusion
cough or hoarseness
decrease in urination
fever or chills
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
slurred speech
swelling of the feet or lower legs
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness


Abdominal or stomach pain or tenderness
bone pain
change in frequency of urination or amount of urine
clay colored stools
dark urine
decreased appetite
dizziness
drowsiness
dry mouth
headache
increased blood pressure
increased thirst
itching
loss of appetite
nausea or vomiting
skin rash
weight gain
yellow eyes or skin


Darkening of the skin
diarrhea


Blurred vision
changes in patterns and rhythms of speech
confusion about identity, place, and time
decreased vision
eye pain
hair loss or thinning of the hair
shakiness and unsteady walk
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
trouble with speaking
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination
unusual drowsiness, dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness

