Applies to glipizide: oral tablet, oral tablet extended release
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by glipizide. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking glipizide:
Some of the side effects that can occur with glipizide may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to glipizide: compounding powder, oral tablet, oral tablet extended release
The majority of side effects have been dose related, transient, and have responded to dose reduction or withdrawal of the drug.  As with other sulfonylureas, some side effects associated with hypersensitivity may be severe and deaths have been reported in some instances.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): SyncopeUncommon (less than 1%): Arrhythmia, flushing, hypertension[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Sweating, pruritusUncommon (less than 1%): Rash, urticariaFrequency not reported: Rash, erythema, morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, urticaria, pruritus, eczema[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects frequently disappear with continued therapy.  Photosensitivity has been reported with other sulfonylureas.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects appear to be dose-related and may disappear on division or reduction of dosage.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, diarrhea, constipation, gastralgia, vomiting, flatulence, dyspepsiaUncommon (less than 1%): Anorexia, trace blood in stoolFrequency not reported: Gastrointestinal irritation, gastrointestinal bleedingPostmarketing reports: Abdominal pain[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): PolyuriaUncommon (less than 1%): Dysuria[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): HypoglycemiaUncommon (less than 1%): ThirstFrequency not reported: Disulfiram like reactions, hepatic porphyria, hyponatremia, syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH), elevation of LDH[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Arthralgia, leg cramps, myalgia[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Headache, dizziness, nervousness, tremors, paresthesia, hypesthesiaUncommon (less than 1%): MigraineFrequency not reported: Drowsiness[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Blurred visionUncommon (less than 1%): Pain in the eye, conjunctivitis, retinal hemorrhageFrequency not reported: Diplopia, abnormal vision, visual impairment, decreased vision[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Asthenia, painUncommon (less than 1%): Chills, edemaFrequency not reported: Vertigo, malaise[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Insomnia, anxiety, depressionFrequency not reported: Confusion[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): RhinitisUncommon (less than 1%): Pharyngitis, dyspnea[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Leucopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, pancytopenia, elevation of alkaline phosphatase, BUN, and creatinine[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Impaired hepatic function, hepatitis, jaundice, elevation of SGOTPostmarketing reports: Cholestatic and hepatocellular forms of liver injury accompanied by jaundice[Ref]
1. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
3. "Product Information. Glucotrol (glipizide)." Pfizer US Pharmaceuticals, New York, NY. 
4. Prendergast BD "Glyburide and glipizide, second-generation oral sulfonylurea hypoglycemic agents." Clin Pharm 3 (1984): 473-85
5. Lebovitz HE "Glipizide: a second-generation sulfonylurea hypoglycemic agent. Pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and clinical use." Pharmacotherapy 5 (1985): 63-77
6. Brogden RN, Heel RC, Pakes GE, Speight TM, Avery GS "Glipizide: a review of its pharmacological properties and therapeutic use." Drugs 18 (1979): 329-53
7. Moder KG, Schwenk NM "A coproporphyria-like syndrome induced by glipizide." Mayo Clin Proc 66 (1991): 312-6
8. Feinglos MN, Lebovitz HE "Long-term safety and efficacy of glipizide." Am J Med 75 (1983): 60-6
9. Asplund K, Wiholm BE, Lundman B "Severe hypoglycaemia during treatment with glipizide." Diabet Med 8 (1991): 726-31
Not all side effects for glipizide may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Anxiety
blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chills
cold sweats
coma
confusion
cool, pale skin
depression
difficulty with moving
dizziness
fainting
fast heartbeat
headache
increased hunger
joint pain
leg cramps
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pain or stiffness
nausea
nervousness
nightmares
pain in the joints
problems in urination or increase in the amount of urine
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
sweating
swollen joints
unusual tiredness or weakness


Abdominal or stomach pain
bloating
bloody or black, tarry stools
body aches or pain
burning, dry, or itching eyes
clay-colored stools
congestion
constipation
cough
dark urine
decreased vision or other changes in vision
diarrhea
difficult or labored breathing
difficult or painful urination
dryness or soreness of the throat
excessive tearing
fainting
fast, slow, or irregular heartbeat
feeling of warmth
fever
heartburn
hoarseness
indigestion
itching
loss of appetite
pain in the eye
pounding in the ears
rash
redness of the face, neck, arms and occasionally, upper chest
redness, pain, or swelling of the eye, eyelid, or inner lining of the eyelid
runny nose
severe stomach pain
shortness of breath
tender, swollen glands in the neck
tightness in the chest
trouble in swallowing
unpleasant breath odor
voice changes
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
wheezing
yellow eyes or skin


Agitation
back or leg pains
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
chest pain
convulsions
decreased urine output
fluid-filled skin blisters
general body swelling
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
high fever
hostility
increased thirst
irritability
lethargy
light-colored stools
lower back or side pain
muscle twitching
nosebleeds
pinpoint red pots on the skin
rapid weight gain
sensitivity to the sun
skin thinness
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stupor
swelling of the face, ankles, or hands
unusual bleeding or bruising


Indigestion
passing of gas


Acid or sour stomach
belching
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
full feeling
pain
sleeplessness
sneezing
stuffy nose
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep


Decreased interest in sexual intercourse
dizziness or lightheadedness
excessive muscle tone
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
flushing or redness of the skin
headache, severe and throbbing
hives or welts
inability to have or keep an erection
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
mood or mental changes
muscle stiffness
muscle tension or tightness
sensation of spinning
skin rash, encrusted, scaly, and oozing
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
unusually warm skin
walking in unusual manner
weight loss


Increased sensitivity of the skin to sunlight
severe sunburn

