Generic Name: glucagon
Applies to glucagon: injection powder for solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by glucagon (the active ingredient contained in GlucaGen). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking glucagon:
Some of the side effects that can occur with glucagon may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to glucagon: injectable powder for injection
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea and vomiting.  A higher incidence of nausea and vomiting has been reported with higher doses.[Ref]
Endocrine side effects have included symptoms of hypoglycemia following a dose of glucagon (the active ingredient contained in GlucaGen) [Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included generalized allergic reactions, including urticaria, respiratory distress, and hypotension.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Glucagon (glucagon)." Lilly, Eli and Company, Indianapolis, IN. 
Not all side effects for GlucaGen may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Anxiety
blurred vision
chills
cold sweats
coma
confusion
cool, pale skin
depression
dizziness
fast heartbeat
headache
increased hunger
nausea
nervousness
nightmares
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
unusual tiredness or weakness


Difficulty with swallowing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
hives, itching, or skin rash
pounding in the ears
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
slow or fast heartbeat
sweating
tightness in the chest


Vomiting

