Generic Name: miglitol
Common side effects of Glyset include: abdominal pain, diarrhea, gastrointestinal symptoms, and flatulence. Other side effects include: decreased serum iron, and skin rash.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to miglitol: oral tablet
Some of the side effects that can occur with miglitol (the active ingredient contained in Glyset) may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to miglitol: oral tablet
The most commonly reported adverse reactions include gastrointestinal symptoms; they tend to diminish in frequency and intensity with time.
Very common (10% or more): Flatulence (41.5%), diarrhea (28.7%), abdominal pain (11.7%)Postmarketing reports: Pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis (may present with symptoms of diarrhea, mucus discharge, rectal bleeding, and constipation), ileus (including paralytic ileus), subileus, gastrointestinal pain, nausea, abdominal distention.[Ref]
The severity of gastrointestinal symptoms may be decreased by dosage reduction and avoiding high gas-producing foods and sucrose.  Some studies have demonstrated a decrease in the severity of gastrointestinal effects over time with continued administration.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Skin rash[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Low serum iron[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Glyset (miglitol)." Bayer, West Haven, CT. 
Not all side effects for Glyset may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bloated full feeling
excess air or gas in stomach or intestines
increase in bowel movements 
loose stools
passing gas
soft stools
stomach or abdomen pain


Skin rash

