Common side effects of Glyxambi include: urinary tract infection. Other side effects include: increased ldl cholesterol.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Linagliptin:Postmarketing reports: RashDipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors:-Postmarketing cases: Bullous pemphigoid
Postmarketing reports of bullous pemphigoid requiring hospitalization have been reported with DPP-4 inhibitors.  Discontinuation of therapy and treatment with topical or systemic immunosuppressive agents led to resolution in reported cases.
Pancreatitis was reported in 15.2 cases per 10,000 patient year exposure in patients receiving linagliptin compared to 3.7 cases per 10,000 patient year exposure in those receiving active comparator (placebo or sulfonylurea), during clinical trials.  Following completing of clinical trials, 3 additional cases of pancreatitis were reported in those receiving linagliptin.  Postmarketing reports of acute pancreatitis, including fatalities, have been reported.
Empagliflozin:Common (1% to 10%): NauseaLinagliptin:Common (1% to 10%): DiarrheaFrequency not reported: PancreatitisPostmarketing reports: Acute pancreatitis
Empagliflozin-Linagliptin:Very Common (10% or more): Urinary tract infection (up to 12.5%)Postmarketing reports: Urosepsis, pyelonephritisEmpagliflozin:Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infection, female genital mycotic infections, increased urination, male genital mycotic infections
Empagliflozin-Linagliptin:Frequency not reported: Increased hematocritEmpagliflozin:Common (1% to 10%): Increased hematocrit
Postmarketing, serious hypersensitivity reactions including angioedema, anaphylaxis, and exfoliative skin conditions have been reported in patients treated with linagliptin.  These reactions have occurred within the first 3 months and some have occurred after the first dose.
Linagliptin:Frequency not reported: Hypersensitivity reactions including urticaria, angioedema, localized skin exfoliation, or bronchial hyper-reactivityPostmarketing reports: Serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis
When this combination product was added to metformin therapy, the overall incidence of hypoglycemia was 2.2% and 3.6% in patients receiving empagliflozin 10 mg-linagliptin 5 mg and empagliflozin 25 mg-linagliptin 5 mg, respectively.  There were no reports of serious hypoglycemia.Twenty reports of acidosis have been identified in the US Food and Drug Administration Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) database during the period March 2013 through 06 June 2014.  All patients required emergency room treatment or hospitalization.  These cases were not typical of ketoacidosis or diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) in that they occurred in patients with type 2 diabetes and their blood sugar levels were only slightly increased.  Some factors identified as potentially triggering the acidosis included major illness, reduced food and fluid intake, and reduced insulin dose.
Empagliflozin-Linagliptin:Common (1% to 10%): Hypoglycemia, increased cholesterolEmpagliflozin:Common (1% to 10%): Increased low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, dyslipidemiaPostmarketing reports: Acidosis including diabetic ketoacidosis, ketoacidosis, or ketosis	Linagliptin:Common (1% to 10%): Increased uric acid
Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors:-Common (1% to 10%): Arthralgia-Postmarketing cases: Severe and disabling arthralgia
Between October 2006 and December 2013, thirty-three cases of severe arthralgia have been reported to the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System Database.  Each case involved the use of 1 or more dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor.  In all cases, substantial reduction in prior activity level was reported, 10 patients were hospitalized due to disabling joint pain.  In 22 cases, symptoms appeared within 1 month of starting therapy, in 23 cases symptoms resolved less than 1 month after discontinuation.  A positive rechallenge was reported in 8 cases, with 6 cases involving use of a different DPP-4 inhibitor.  Sitagliptin had the greatest number of cases reported (n=28) followed by saxagliptin (n=5), linagliptin (n=2), alogliptin (n=1), and vildagliptin (n=2).
Postmarketing reports of AKI, some requiring hospitalization and dialysis, have been received for patients treated with SGLT2 inhibitors including empagliflozin.  Some reports involved patients younger than 65 years old.
Empagliflozin:Frequency not reported: Increased serum creatinine, decreased eGFRPostmarketing reports: Acute kidney injury (AKI)
Empagliflozin-Linagliptin:Common (1% to 10%): Nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory infectionEmpagliflozin:Common (1% to 10%): Upper respiratory infectionLinagliptin:Common (1% to 10%): Nasopharyngitis, cough
Bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
difficult, burning, or painful urination
frequent urge to urinate
lower back or side pain
Anxiety
bloating
blurred vision
chills
cold sweats
confusion
constipation
cool, pale skin
darkened urine
depression
dizziness
dry mouth
fast heartbeat
fever
flushed, dry skin
fruit-like breath odor
headache
increased hunger
increased thirst
indigestion
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
loss of consciousness
nausea
nightmares
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, radiating to the back
seizures
severe joint pain
shakiness
slurred speech
stomach pain
sweating
troubled breathing
unexplained weight loss
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
yellow eyes or skin
Body aches or pain
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
headache
loss of voice
runny or stuffy nose
sneezing
sore throat
Discharge with a strong odor from the penis
redness, itching, swelling, or pain around the penis
vaginal discharge, itching, or odor