Applies to griseofulvin: oral capsule, oral suspension, oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by griseofulvin. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking griseofulvin:
Some of the side effects that can occur with griseofulvin may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to griseofulvin: compounding powder, oral capsule, oral suspension, oral tablet
Hypersensitivity side effects have been reported most commonly.  These have included skin rashes, urticaria, erythema multiforme-like drug reactions, and rarely, angioneurotic edema.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included severe skin reactions (including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis) and erythema multiforme.  Fixed-drug eruptions, photosensitivity, exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and SLE-like syndromes have been reported.  A patient with Hailey-Hailey disease (chronic benign familial pemphigus) experienced a widespread bullous eruption due to griseofulvin therapy.  Lesions have commonly begun on sun-exposed areas.
Fixed-drug eruptions have been verified by rechallenge.At least one reported case of toxic epidermal necrolysis resulted in death.At least one fatal case of SLE exacerbation occurred after ingestion of approximately 1 gram of griseofulvin.
Nervous system side effects have included headache, insomnia, dizziness, and mental confusion.  Neuropathy and development of paresthesia of the hands and feet have been reported with long-term use.[Ref]
Neuropathy and paresthesia have been reported in a few cases of long-term griseofulvin therapy.  One woman reportedly developed paresthesia in the fingers and feet after 6 months of griseofulvin therapy.  Neuropathy progressed for 4 months after the drug was discontinued but resolved 8 months after therapy was discontinued.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included hepatotoxicity, jaundice, and elevations in AST, ALT, and bilirubin.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, vomiting, epigastric/abdominal distress, and oral thrush.[Ref]
Renal side effects have included interstitial nephritis.[Ref]
One patient developed interstitial nephritis after one year of griseofulvin therapy.  The patient presented with renal insufficiency, hematuria, pyuria, eosinophiluria, and anemia.  Renal function returned to normal after one year.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included proteinuria and menstrual irregularities.
Hematologic side effects have included leukopenia.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects have included exacerbation of porphyria.
A disulfiram-like reaction, including flushing, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and paresthesia of the extremities, occurred in one patient who ingested griseofulvin with alcohol.[Ref]
Other side effects have included fever, fatigue, and a disulfiram-like reaction.  Impairment of performance of routine activities has been reported occasionally.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included at least one case of griseofulvin-induced myositis.
1. Taylor B, Duffill M "Toxic epidermal necrolysis from griseofulvin." J Am Acad Dermatol 19 (1988): 565-6
2. Feinstein A, Sofer E, Trau H, Schewach-Millet M "Urticaria and fixed drug eruption in a patient treated with griseofulvin." J Am Acad Dermatol 10 (1984): 915-7
3. Rustin MH, Bunker CB, Dowd PM, Robinson TW "Erythema multiforme due to griseofulvin." Br J Dermatol 120 (1989): 455-8
4. Mion G, Verdon R, Le Gulluche YL, Carstein H, Garcia A, Guilbaud J "Fatal toxic epidermal necrolysis after griseofulvin." Lancet 2 (1989): 1331
5. Boudghene-Stambouli O, Merad-Boudia A "Fixed drug eruption induced by griseofulvin." Dermatologica 179 (1989): 92-3
6. Miyagawa S, Sakamoto K "Adverse reaction to griseofulvin in patients with circulating anti-ssa/ro and ssb/la autoantibodies." Am J Med 87 (1989): 99-102
7. "Product Information. Fulvicin P/G (griseofulvin)." Schering Laboratories, Kenilworth, NJ. 
8. Miyagawa S, Okuchi T, Shiomi Y, Sakamoto K "Subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus lesions precipitated by griseofulvin." J Am Acad Dermatol 21 (1989): 343-6
9. Gupta AK,  Ryder JE "The use of oral antifungal agents to treat onychomycosis." Dermatol Clin 21 (2003): 469-79, vi
10. Lecky BR "Griseofulvin-induced neuropathy." Lancet 1 (1990): 230-1
11. Debruyne D, Coquerel A "Pharmacokinetics of antifungal agents in onychomycoses." Clin Pharmacokinet 40 (2001): 441-72
12. Haskell LP, Mennemyer RP, Greenman R, Pelczar C "Isolated erythroid hypoplasia and renal insufficiency induced by long-term griseofulvin therapy." South Med J 83 (1990): 1327-30
13. Fett DL, Vukov LF "An unusual case of severe griseofulvin alcohol interaction." Ann Emerg Med 24 (1994): 95-7
Not all side effects for griseofulvin may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
chills
cough
diarrhea
fever
itching
joint or muscle pain
red, irritated eyes
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
unusual tiredness or weakness


Confusion
increased sensitivity of the skin to sunlight
skin rash, hives, or itching
soreness or irritation of the mouth or tongue


Black, tarry stools
chest pain
cloudy urine
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
numbness, tingling, pain, or weakness in the hands or feet
painful or difficult urination
shortness of breath
swollen glands
unusual bleeding or bruising
yellow eyes or skin


Abdominal or stomach pain
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
clay-colored stools
dark urine
dizziness
headache
loss of appetite
nausea
unpleasant breath odor
vomiting of blood


Hives or welts
redness of the skin


Trouble with sleeping


Heartburn
pain or discomfort in the chest, upper stomach, or throat
sleeplessness
unable to sleep
white patches in the mouth or throat or on the tongue
white patches with diaper rash

