Generic Name: triazolam
More frequent side effects include: dizziness, insomnia, rebound insomnia, headache, and irritability.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to triazolam: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by triazolam (the active ingredient contained in Halcion). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking triazolam:
Some of the side effects that can occur with triazolam may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to triazolam: oral tablet
Some side effects reported with triazolam (the active ingredient contained in Halcion)  including drowsiness, dizziness, lightheadedness, and amnesia, appear to be dose related.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Drowsiness, sedationCommon (1% to 10%): Ataxia, concentration difficulty, dizziness, headache, impaired coordination, impaired equilibrium, lethargy, lightheadedness, tirednessUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Memory impairmentFrequency not reported: Amnestic symptoms (anterograde amnesia with appropriate or inappropriate behavior), clouding of consciousness, dysesthesia, dystonia, increased muscle spasticity, paresthesia, somnambulism, syncope, taste alteration, tinnitus, travelers amnesia[Ref]
Complex behaviors, such as "sleep-driving", other behaviors such as preparing and eating food, making phone calls, or having sex, with amnesia for these events, have been reported at therapeutic doses with this medicine.[Ref]
Rebound insomnia (a worsening of sleep following cessation of therapy) has been observed and has sometimes been reported to occur in association with increased daytime anxiety.Withdrawal symptoms have included agitation, restlessness, anxiety, insomnia, psychosis, delirium, convulsions, tremor, abdominal cramps, blurred vision, vomiting, and sweating.Worsening of insomnia, depression, or the emergence of new thinking or behavior abnormalities, including suicidal thinking, have emerged during treatment with sedative-hypnotic drugs, including triazolam (the active ingredient contained in Halcion)   The frequency and extent to which triazolam therapy is associated with adverse behavioral effects is controversial.One study based on the postmarketing surveillance Spontaneous Reporting System of the FDA has suggested that adverse behavioral reactions have been reported 22 to 99 times more frequently in association with triazolam therapy than with temazepam therapy for insomnia.  An increased frequency of adverse behavioral effects was noted to occur most frequently in elderly patients and at higher doses of triazolam.  The methodology of this study, however, has been questioned on the grounds that spontaneous reports of adverse effects do not necessarily correlate with the incidence of adverse effects.Other studies and reports have concluded that little evidence exists to support the contention that triazolam therapy is associated with a greater risk of adverse behavioral effects than other benzodiazepines (including temazepam).[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Anxiety, nervousnessUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Confusional states, depression, euphoriaFrequency not reported: Abnormal dreams, acute rage, aggressiveness, agitation, bizarre behavior, delusions, dependence, depersonalization, derealization, disorientation in time or place, dysarthria, excitement, hallucinations, paranoia, hostility, nightmares, increased daytime anxiety, insomnia, sleep disturbances, stimulation, withdrawal syndrome[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): TachycardiaFrequency not reported: Chest pain, palpitations[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Angioneurotic edema, dermatitis, pruritus, skin alteration[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, vomitingFrequency not reported: Burning tongue, constipation, diarrhea, dry mouth, glossitis, stomatitis[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Changes in libido, incontinence, menstrual irregularities, urinary retention[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Jaundice[Ref]
Death from hepatic failure has been reported in a patient also receiving diuretic drugs.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Anaphylactoid reaction, allergic edema, anaphylactic shock[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Anorexia[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Pains/cramps[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Visual disturbances[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Congestion, falling, fatigue, weakness[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hiccups, respiratory depression[Ref]
One study of patients with obstructive sleep apnea has suggested that triazolam may increase the maximum apnea duration and lower the minimum oxygen saturation of apneic patients.[Ref]
1. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
2. "Product Information. Halcion (triazolam)." Pharmacia and Upjohn, Kalamazoo, MI. 
3. Rothschild AJ "Disinhibition, amnestic reactions, and other adverse reactions secondary to triazolam: a review of the literature." J Clin Psychiatry 53 (1992): 69-79
4. Morris HH, 3d  Estes ML "Traveler's amnesia. Transient global amnesia secondary to triazolam." JAMA 258 (1987): 945-6
5. Patterson WM "Triazolam withdrawal." J Clin Psychiatry 49 (1988): 369
6. Andreadis NA, Schirmer RG "Use of spontaneous reporting system data." Arch Intern Med 152 (1992): 1527-9
7. Wysowski DK, Barash D "Adverse behavioral reactions attributed to triazolam in the Food and Drug Administration's Spontaneous Reporting System." Arch Intern Med 151 (1991): 2003-8
8. Schneider LS, Syapin PJ, Pawluczyk S "Seizures following triazolam withdrawal despite benzodiazepine treatment." J Clin Psychiatry 48 (1987): 418-9
9. Schogt B, Conn D "Paranoid symptoms associated with triazolam." Can J Psychiatry 30 (1985): 462-3
10. Heritch AJ, Capwell R, Roy-Byrne PP "A case of psychosis and delirium following withdrawal from triazolam." J Clin Psychiatry 48 (1987): 168-9
11. Weilburg JB, Sachs G, Falk WE "Triazolam-induced brief episodes of secondary mania in a depressed patient." J Clin Psychiatry 48 (1987): 492-3
12. Rush CR, Higgins ST, Hughes JR, Bickel WK "A comparison of the acute behavioral effects of triazolam and temazepam in normal volunteers." Psychopharmacology (Berl) 112 (1993): 407-14
13. Sullivan RJ, Jr "Respiratory depression requiring ventilatory support following 0.5 mg of triazolam." J Am Geriatr Soc 37 (1989): 450-2
14. Berry RB, Kouchi K, Bower J, Prosise G, Light RW "Triazolam in patients with obstructive sleep apnea." Am J Respir Crit Care Med 151 (1995): 450-4
Not all side effects for Halcion may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Shakiness and unsteady walk
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination


Being forgetful
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
discouragement
false or unusual sense of well-being
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
feeling sad or empty
hearing loss
irritability
lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
nightmares
tiredness
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping


Abdominal or stomach pain
actions that are out of control
aggressiveness
anxiety
changes in patterns and rhythms of speech
chest pain
chills
clay-colored stools
confusion about identity, place, and time
dark urine
decrease in frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
dizziness
drowsiness
dry mouth
environment seems unreal
fainting
falling
false beliefs that cannot be changed by facts
feeling of unreality
fever
headache
hyperventilation
inability to move the eyes
increased blinking or spasms of the eyelid
increased muscle spasm
irregular heartbeats
loss of bladder control
loss of memory
nausea
nervousness
nightmares
painful urination
problems with memory
rash
relaxed and calm
restlessness
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
sense of detachment from self or body
sleep walking
sleepiness
slurred speech
sticking out of tongue
talking, feeling, and acting with excitement
trouble breathing, speaking, or swallowing
uncontrolled twisting movements of the neck, trunk, arms, or legs
unpleasant breath odor
unusual excitement, nervousness, restlessness, or irritability
unusual facial expressions
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin


Lightheadedness


Any change in vision
blistering, crusting, irritation, itching, or reddening of the skin
change in taste, or bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
cracked, dry, or scaly skin
cramps
diarrhea
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
dry mouth
swelling
weakness


Decreased interest in sexual intercourse
inability to have or keep an erection
increase in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
increase interest in sexual intercourse
itching skin
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
menstrual changes
redness, swelling, or soreness of the tongue
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
weight loss

