Cardiovascular side effects have included QT interval prolongation, torsades de pointes, ventricular arrhythmias, and death.  Chest pain and palpitations have been reported less than 1% of patients in clinical trials, and orthostatic hypotension has been reported in less than 1% to 33% of patients.  Hypertensive crisis (1/933) and cerebrovascular accident (1/933) have been reported, although causality was not clearly established.  Quinidine-like electrocardiographic changes have also been reported.
Higher risk may be associated with larger than recommended doses, previous or concurrent mefloquine treatment, preexisting QT interval prolongation, or concurrent administration of other QT interval-prolonging drugs.  Prolonged QTc interval has been reported in up to 81% of adults treated with standard halofantrine doses and in 100% of patients treated with high doses (72 mg/kg).  Prolonged QTc interval has been reported in 50% of children and prolonged PR interval has been reported in 38% of children (n=21).  Females may have a higher risk of adverse cardiovascular effects.It has been proposed that halofantrine prolongs repolarization by blocking HERG potassium channels.
Gastrointestinal (GI) side effects have included abdominal pain (8.5%), diarrhea (6%), vomiting (4.3%), and nausea (3.4%), although these symptoms may also occur with a malarial infection.  Abdominal distention, anorexia, constipation, dyspepsia, and stomatitis have been reported in less than 1% of patients.  GI upset has also been reported.
Hematologic side effects have included decreased hematocrit, decreased or increased white blood cells, decreased platelet counts, hemolysis, and hemolytic anemia.  These reactions may also occur with a malaria infection.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included allergic and anaphylactic reactions including facial edema and urticaria.
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus (2.6%) and rash (less than 1%).
Musculoskeletal side effects have included rigors (1.7%), myalgia (1.3%), arthralgia (less than 1%), and back pain (less than 1%).
Nervous system side effects have included dizziness (4.5%) and headache (3%).  Asthenia, confusion, convulsions, depression, paresthesia, and sleep disorder have been reported in less than 1% of patients.
Genitourinary side effects have included urinary frequency (less than 1%).
Ocular side effects have included abnormal vision (less than 1%).
Respiratory side effects have included cough (3%).  Pulmonary edema has been reported (1/933); however, causality was not determined.
Other side effects have included fatigue, malaise, and tinnitus in less than 1% of patients.
Hepatic side effects have included increased hepatic transaminases, which returned to normal within 2 to 3 weeks.
Renal side effects have included blackwater fever (acute intravascular hemolysis with acute renal failure and hemoglobinuria) requiring hemodialysis patients taking halofantrine for Plasmodium falciparum infections (n=2).  Causality was not clearly established.  One patient had a positive Coombs test.
Coughing
noisy, rattling, or troubled breathing
Abdominal pain
chest pain
confusion
convulsions (seizures)
diarrhea
difficulty in breathing or swallowing
hives
itching, especially of feet or hands
nausea
pounding heartbeat
reddening of skin, especially around ears
swelling of eyes, face or inside of nose
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Headache
Aches and pain in joints
constipation
frequent urination
indigestion
loss of appetite
skin itching or rash