More frequently reported side effects include: burning sensation of skin, pruritus, and stinging of the skin.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to halobetasol topical: topical application cream, topical application lotion, topical application ointment
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by halobetasol topical. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking halobetasol topical:
Some of the side effects that can occur with halobetasol topical may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to halobetasol topical: topical cream, topical kit, topical lotion, topical ointment
The most commonly reported side effects were stinging, burning, and itching.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Intracranial hypertension (including bulging fontanelles, headaches, bilateral papilledema), paresthesia[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Dry skin, erythema, skin atrophy, leukoderma, vesicles, rash, pustulation, acne, secondary infection, telangiectasia, urticaria, miliaria, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, striae[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hyperglycemia, glucosuria[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Stinging, burning, itching[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Ultravate (halobetasol)." Bristol-Myers Squibb, Princeton, NJ. 
Not all side effects for halobetasol topical may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Blisters under the skin
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
dry skin
flushing or redness of the skin
hives or welts
itching
rash
stinging
thinning of the skin with easy bruising, especially when used on the face or where the skin folds together (e.g. between the fingers)
unusually warm skin


Blistering, burning, crusting, dryness, or flaking of the skin
itching, scaling, severe redness, soreness, or swelling of the skin
redness and scaling around the mouth


Acne or pimples
burning and itching of the skin with pinhead-sized red blisters


Burning, itching, and pain in hairy areas, or pus at the root of the hair
increased hair growth on the forehead, back, arms, and legs
lightening of normal skin color
lightening of treated areas of dark skin
reddish purple lines on the arms, face, legs, trunk, or groin

