Generic Name: hawthorn (Not applicable.)
Brand Name: Generics only. No brands available.
Lowering blood pressure, improving circulation and treating symptoms of mild heart failure, decreasing the occurrence of chest pain, reducing atherosclerosis, and helping with trouble sleeping. Hawthorn will not stop an angina attack. It may have other uses as well. Check with your pharmacist for more details regarding the particular brand you use.
Hawthorn is an herbal product. It works by widening blood vessels, especially heart blood vessels, which results in increased heart blood flow.
Contact your doctor or health care provider right away if any of these apply to you.
Some medical conditions may interact with hawthorn. Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you have any medical conditions, especially if any of the following apply to you:
Some MEDICINES MAY INTERACT with hawthorn. However, no specific interactions are known at this time.
This may not be a complete list of all interactions that may occur. Ask your health care provider if hawthorn may interact with other medicines that you take. Check with your health care provider before you start, stop, or change the dose of any medicine.
Use hawthorn as directed by your doctor. Check the label on the medicine for exact dosing instructions.
Ask your health care provider any questions you may have about how to use hawthorn.
All medicines may cause side effects, but many people have no, or minor, side effects. Check with your doctor if any of these most COMMON side effects persist or become bothersome:
Fatigue; nausea; sweating.
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; itching; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, or tongue); dizziness; drowsiness; irregular heartbeat; weakness.
This is not a complete list of all side effects that may occur. If you have questions about side effects, contact your health care provider. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. To report side effects to the appropriate agency, please read the Guide to Reporting Problems to FDA.
Contact 1-800-222-1222 (the American Association of Poison Control Centers), your local poison control center, or emergency room immediately. Symptoms may include dizziness; fatigue; sleepiness; weakness.
Store at room temperature away from heat, moisture, and light unless otherwise directed on the package label. Do not store in the bathroom. Most herbal products are not in childproof containers. Keep hawthorn out of the reach of children and away from pets.
This information should not be used to decide whether or not to take hawthorn or any other medicine. Only your health care provider has the knowledge and training to decide which medicines are right for you. This information does not endorse any medicine as safe, effective, or approved for treating any patient or health condition. This is only a brief summary of general information about hawthorn. It does NOT include all information about the possible uses, directions, warnings, precautions, interactions, adverse effects, or risks that may apply to hawthorn. This information is not specific medical advice and does not replace information you receive from your health care provider. You must talk with your healthcare provider for complete information about the risks and benefits of using hawthorn.

you are allergic to any ingredient in hawthorn
you are pregnant or breast-feeding


if you are planning to become pregnant
if you are taking any prescription or nonprescription medicine, herbal preparation, or dietary supplement
if you have allergies to medicines, foods, or other substances
if you have heart disease


Dosing depends on the use and the source of the product.
Use as directed on the package, unless instructed otherwise by your doctor.
It may take 6 weeks for this product to work.
This product should only be used on the advice of your doctor. Do not stop taking other heart medicine without checking with your doctor.
If you miss taking a dose of hawthorn for 1 or more days, there is no cause for concern. If your doctor recommended that you take it, try to remember your dose every day.


Do not drive, operate machinery, or do anything else that could be dangerous until you know how you react to this product. Using this product alone, with certain other medicines, or with alcohol may lessen your ability to drive or to perform other potentially dangerous tasks.
If you are taking this product for a heart condition and your symptoms become worse, contact your doctor as soon as possible.
This product has not been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as safe and effective for any medical condition. The long-term safety of herbal products is not known. Before using any alternative medicine, talk with your doctor or pharmacist.
Hawthorn is not recommended for use in CHILDREN.
PREGNANCY and BREAST-FEEDING: Do not use this product if you are pregnant. Do not breast-feed while taking this product.


If you have any questions about hawthorn, please talk with your doctor, pharmacist, or other health care provider.
Hawthorn is to be used only by the patient for whom it is prescribed. Do not share it with other people.
If your symptoms do not improve or if they become worse, check with your doctor.
Check with your pharmacist about how to dispose of unused medicine.

