Generic Name: hepatitis b immune globulin
Applies to hepatitis b immune globulin: solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by hepatitis b immune globulin (the active ingredient contained in HepaGam B). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking hepatitis b immune globulin, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with hepatitis b immune globulin may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to hepatitis b immune globulin: injectable solution, intramuscular solution
Most side effects have been classified as mild.[Ref]
Local side effects have included erythema, pain, ecchymosis, and tenderness at the injection site.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects including allergic reactions have been commonly reported.  Urticaria, angioedema, and anaphylactic reactions have been reported rarely.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea and vomiting have been commonly reported.  Aphthous stomatitis, diarrhea, dyspepsia, and gingival hyperplasia have been reported in greater than 10% of patients.[Ref]
Other side effects have included fatigue (greater than 10%), peripheral edema (greater than 10%), pyrexia (greater than 10%), cold or flu symptoms (10%), lightheadedness (3%), fainting (3%), malaise, chills, and fever.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have been commonly reported.  These have included back pain (greater than 10%), moderate low back pain, and arthralgia.  Myalgia and joint stiffness have been reported.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included splenomegaly (greater than 10%) and decreased white blood cells.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included hepatobiliary disease (greater than 10%), increased AST, and alkaline phosphatase.[Ref]
Renal side effects have included nocturia (greater than 10%) and increased creatinine.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects including pleural effusion have been reported in greater than 10% of patients.
Dermatologic side effects including pruritus and rash have been reported in greater than 10% of patients.
Psychiatric side effects including agitation have been reported in greater than 10% of patients.
Immunologic side effects including liver transplant rejection, diarrhea infections, pneumonia, and sepsis have been reported in greater than 10% of patients.
Cardiovascular side effects including hypertension and hypotension have been reported in greater than 10% of patients.
Metabolic side effects have included hyperglycemia.
Nervous system side effects have included amnesia (greater than 10%), essential tremor (greater than 10%), and headache (6% to greater than 10%).  At least two cases of tremor have been reported.
Ocular side effects including presbyopia have been reported in greater than 10% of patients.
1. "Product Information. Nabi-HB (hepatitis B immune globulin)." Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Libertyville, IL. 
2. "Product Information. Bayhep B (hepatitis B immune globulin)." Bayer Pharmaceutical Inc, West Haven, CT. 
Not all side effects for HepaGam B may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Blurred vision
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness


Chills
cough
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
fever
hives
itching
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
shortness of breath
skin rash
tightness in the chest
wheezing


Back pain
general feeling of discomfort
headache
muscle aches or pain
nausea
pain at the injection site


Abdominal or stomach cramping
burning, heat, and redness at the injection site
diarrhea
feeling as if you are going to vomit
joint pain


Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site
cold sweats
feeling cold
flu-like symptoms
upper abdominal or stomach pain

