Adverse reactions observed have included hypoglycemia, allergic reactions, local injection site reactions, lipodystrophy, rash, and pruritus.
Weight gain has been reported with insulin therapy and has been attributed to the anabolic effects of insulin and the decrease in glucosuria.
Very common (10% or more): HypoglycemiaFrequency not reported: Weight gain
Frequency not reported: Allergic reactions including anaphylaxis
Hypersensitivity side effects have included both local and systemic reactions.  Anaphylaxis has been reported.  Local reactions have presented as erythema, local edema, and pruritus at the injection site.  Most minor reactions to insulin at the injection site resolve in a few days to a few weeks.  Generalized allergy to insulin may present as a whole body rash, dyspnea, wheezing, hypotension, tachycardia, or diaphoresis.  In clinical trials, pruritus (with or without rash) was seen in 17 patients receiving human insulin (n=2969) and 30 patients receiving insulin lispro (n=2944).
Common (1% to 10%): Infusion site reactions Rare (less than 0.1%): Catheter occlusions/month
Rapid improvement in glucose control has been associated with a transitory, reversible ophthalmologic refraction disorder and worsening of diabetic retinopathy.  However, long-term glycemic control decreases the risk of diabetic retinopathy.
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Refraction disorder, worsening of diabetic retinopathy
Very common (10% or more): Headache (up to 29.6%)Rare (less than 0.1%): Painful peripheral neuropathy
Rapid improvement in glucose control has been associated with a transitory, reversible acute painful peripheral neuropathy.  However, long-term glycemic control decreases the risk.
The clinical significance of the development of these antibody titers is unknown.
Very common (10% or more): Flu syndrome (up to 34.6%), infection (up to 13.6%)Frequency not reported: Anti-insulin antibody titers
Frequency not reported: Peripheral edema
Insulin may cause sodium retention and edema, especially as metabolic control is improving.
Long-term use of insulin may cause lipodystrophy at the site of repeated injection.  Lipodystrophy includes lipohypertrophy, a thickening of adipose tissue, and lipoatrophy, thinning of adipose tissue.
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Urticaria, rash Frequency not reported: Lipodystrophy including lipohypertrophy and lipoatrophy
Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, diarrhea, abdominal pain
Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infection, dysmenorrhea
Common (1% to 10%): Myalgia
Very common (10% or more): Pain (up to 19.8%)Common (1% to 10%): Fever
Very common (10% or more): Pharyngitis (up to 33.3%), rhinitis (up to 24.7%), increased cough (up to 17.3%)Common (1% to 10%): Sinusitis, bronchitis
Anxious or nervous feeling
behavior change similar to being drunk
blurred vision
cold sweats
confusion or difficulty thinking
convulsions (seizures)
depression
dizziness or lightheadedness
drowsiness
excessive hunger
fast heartbeat
fever or chills
headache
irritability or abnormal behavior
lower back or side pain
nightmares
painful or difficult urination
restless sleep
shakiness
slurred speech
tingling in the hands, feet, lips, or tongue
Dry, red, hot, or irritated skin
Depression of the skin at the injection site
dryness of the mouth
fast or weak pulse
itching, redness, or swelling at the injection site
muscle cramps or pain
nausea or vomiting
skin rash or itching over the whole body
sweating
thickening of the skin at the injection site
trouble breathing
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
decreased urine
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
hives or itching skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
redistribution or accumulation of body fat
tightness in the chest
unusual weight gain or loss
Body aches or pain
congestion
runny nose
sneezing
stuffy nose
tender, swollen glands in the neck
voice changes
Redness, swelling, or itching at the injection site