If any of the following side effects occur while taking ixabepilone, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Myelosuppression manifesting primarily as neutropenia can occur.  It is generally dose-dependent and can result in infection or death.  In clinical studies, grade 4 neutropenia (less than 500 cells/mm3) occurred in 36% of patients treated with ixabepilone (the active ingredient contained in Ixempra) in combination with capecitabine and 23% of patients treated with ixabepilone monotherapy.  Patients should be monitored for myelosuppression with frequent peripheral blood cell counts.  Dosage reduction should be instituted in patients who experience severe neutropenia or thrombocytopenia.
Hematologic side effects have included neutropenia, leukopenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia in more than 40% of patients.  Coagulopathy and lymphopenia have also been reported.
Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported during ixabepilone (the active ingredient contained in Ixempra) use.  Patients with a history of severe hypersensitivity reactions to agents containing polyoxyethylated castor oil should not be treated with ixabepilone.  All patients should be premedicated with an H1 and an H2 antagonist approximately one hour before ixabepilone infusion and be observed for hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., flushing, rash, dyspnea and bronchospasm).  If a severe hypersensitivity reaction occurs, ixabepilone infusion should be stopped and aggressive supportive treatment (e.g., epinephrine, corticosteroids) started.  Patients experiencing a hypersensitivity reaction in one cycle of ixabepilone treatment must be premedicated in subsequent cycles with a corticosteroid in addition to the H1 and H2 antagonists.  Extension of the infusion time should also be considered.
Of the 1323 patients treated with ixabepilone in clinical studies, nine patients (1%) experienced severe hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, and three of the 9 were able to be retreated.
Peripheral neuropathy is a commonly reported side effect associated with ixabepilone (the active ingredient contained in Ixempra)  often occurring early during treatment.  Patients should be monitored for symptoms of neuropathy, such as burning sensation, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, discomfort, or neuropathic pain.  A reduction or delay in the dose of ixabepilone may be required in patients experiencing new or worsening symptoms.  Extra caution should be used when treating patients with diabetes mellitus or existing moderate to severe neuropathy.
Nervous system side effects have included peripheral neuropathy, fatigue, and asthenia in more than 20% of patients.  Insomnia, headache, dizziness, cognitive disorder, syncope, cerebral hemorrhage, abnormal coordination, lethargy, and hot flush have also been reported.
Cardiovascular side effects including myocardial ischemia, ventricular dysfunction, and supraventricular arrhythmias have been associated with ixabepilone (the active ingredient contained in Ixempra) use.  Chest pain (5%), myocardial infarction, left ventricular dysfunction, angina pectoris, atrial flutter, cardiomyopathy, thrombosis, embolism, hemorrhage, hypovolemic shock, vasculitis and hypotension have also been reported.
The frequency of myocardial ischemia and ventricular dysfunction was higher when ixabepilone was used in combination with capecitabine (1.9%) than with capecitabine monotherapy (0.3%).  Supraventricular arrhythmias were observed in the combination arm (0.5%) and not in the capecitabine monotherapy arm.  Caution is recommended in patients with a history of cardiac disease, and discontinuation of ixabepilone should be considered in patients who develop cardiac ischemia or impaired cardiac function.
Musculoskeletal side effects occurring in more than 20% of patients have included myalgia, arthralgia, musculoskeletal pain, and palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (hand-foot) syndrome.  Muscular weakness, muscle spasms, and trismus have also been reported.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, vomiting, stomatitis/mucositis, diarrhea, anorexia, abdominal pain, and constipation in more than 20% of patients.  Gastroesophageal reflux (6%), taste disorder (6%), ileus, colitis, impaired gastric emptying, esophagitis, dysphagia, gastritis, enterocolitis, and gastrointestinal hemorrhage have also been reported.
Dermatologic side effects have included alopecia (48%), skin rash (9%), and nail disorder (9%).  Pruritus (6%), skin exfoliation, skin hyperpigmentation, and erythema multiforme have also been reported.  Radiation recall has been reported during postmarketing use but frequency or causal relationship to drug exposure cannot be established.
Respiratory side effects have included dyspnea (9%), upper respiratory tract infection (6%), and cough.  Laryngitis, lower respiratory tract infection, pneumonia, pneumonitis, hypoxia, respiratory failure, acute pulmonary edema, dysphonia, and pharyngolaryngeal pain have also been reported.
Hepatic side effects have included acute hepatic failure, jaundice, increased transaminases, increased blood alkaline phosphatase, and increased gamma-glutamyltransferase.
Renal side effects have included nephrolithiasis, urinary tract infection, and renal failure.
Metabolic side effects have included hyponatremia, metabolic acidosis, hypokalemia, and hypovolemia.
Ocular side effects including increased lacrimation (4%) have been reported.
Other side effects have included edema (9%), pyrexia (8%), pain (8%), decreased weight (6%), sepsis, infection, bacterial infection, neutropenic infection, neutropenic fever, and chills.
Black, tarry stools
body aches or pain
burning, numbness, tingling, or painful sensations
burning pain on urination
chest pain
chills
cough
difficult or labored breathing
ear congestion
fever
headache
loss of voice
lower back or side pain
nasal congestion
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
red, swelling, or painful skin
runny nose
scaling of the skin on the hands and feet
shortness of breath
sneezing
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips, tongue, or inside the mouth
swelling of the hands, ankles, feet, or lower legs
swollen glands
tightness in the chest
tingling of the hands and feet
troubled breathing with exertion
ulceration of the skin
unsteadiness or awkwardness
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight gain
weakness in the arms, hands, legs, or feet
wheezing
Bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
confusion
decreased urination
dizziness
dry mouth
fainting
fast heartbeat
hives
hoarseness
increase in heart rate
irritation
itching
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
lightheadedness
pinpoint red spots on the skin
rapid breathing
rash
sunken eyes
swelling of the eyelids, face, or lips
thirst
trouble with swallowing
wrinkled skin
Bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
bone pain
change in taste
cracked lips
diarrhea
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
discoloration of the fingernails or toenails
feeling of warmth
hair loss or thinning of the hair
heartburn
lack or loss of strength
loss of appetite
nausea
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
stomach pain
sudden sweating
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
vomiting
weight loss
Darkening of the skin
flaking and falling off of the skin
sleeplessness
trouble with sleeping
unable to sleep
watering of the eyes