Generic Name: dutasteride / tamsulosin
Applies to dutasteride / tamsulosin: oral capsule
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by dutasteride / tamsulosin. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking dutasteride / tamsulosin:
Some of the side effects that can occur with dutasteride / tamsulosin may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to dutasteride / tamsulosin: oral capsule
Genitourinary side effects have included ejaculation disorders, impotence, decreased libido, priapism and breast disorders.Postmarketing genitourinary side effects include testicular pain and swelling.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included dizziness, asthenia, somnolence and insomnia.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included chest pain, orthostatic hypotension, and palpitations.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea, constipation and vomiting.[Ref]
Immunologic side effects have included hypersensitivity reactions, including rash, urticaria, pruritus, angioedema, localized edema, serious skin reactions, and respiratory problems.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have included a variant of small pupil syndrome known as Intraoperative floppy iris syndrome (IFIS) during cataract surgery.[Ref]
General side effects have included infection.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included rhinitis, pharyngitis, increased cough and sinusitis.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included back pain.[Ref]
Postmarketing psychiatric side effects have included depressed mood.
1. "Product Information. Jalyn (dutasteride-tamsulosin)." GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC. 
Not all side effects for Jalyn may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Chills
cold sweats
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position


Chest pain
cough or hoarseness
fever
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination


Blistering, flaking, or peeling of the skin
blurred vision
difficulty with breathing
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
pain or swelling of the treated skin
painful or prolonged erection of the penis
shortness of breath
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness


Change or problem with discharge of semen
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
dizziness
enlarged and painful breasts
inability to have or keep an erection
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance


Back pain
body aches or pain
congestion
diarrhea
dryness or soreness of the throat
headache
increased cough
lack or loss of strength
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
runny nose
shortness of breath or troubled breathing
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sleeplessness
sneezing
stuffy nose
tender, swollen glands in the neck
tightness of the chest or wheezing
trouble sleeping
trouble with swallowing
unable to sleep
voice changes


Constipation
hives or welts
itching
redness of the skin
skin rash
vomiting

