Common side effects of Jardiance include: urinary tract infection. Other side effects include: vulvovaginal candidiasis, cervicitis, genital candidiasis, genitourinary infection, vaginal infection, vulvitis, and vulvovaginitis.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Volume depletion included decreased ambulatory blood pressure, decreased systolic blood pressure, dehydration, hypotension, hypovolemia, orthostatic hypotension, and syncope.
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Volume depletion
Common (1% to 10%): Increased urinationUncommon (0.1% to 1%): DysuriaFrequency not reported: Increased serum creatinine, decreased eGFRPostmarketing reports: Acute kidney injury, urosepsis, pyelonephritis
Common (1% to 10%): Female and male genital mycotic infections, urinary tract infectionUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Phimosis
Frequency of hypoglycemia depended on the type of background therapy used.  In combination with metformin and sulfonylurea, hypoglycemia was reported in 16.1% of patients taking the 10 mg dose and 11.5% in patients taking the 25 mg dose.  In combination with insulin, hypoglycemia was reported in 22.5% of patients taking the 10 mg dose and 29.7% in patients taking the 25 mg dose.Twenty reports of acidosis have been identified in the US Food and Drug Administration Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) database during the period March 2013 through 06 June 2014.  All patients required emergency room treatment or hospitalization.  These cases were not typical of ketoacidosis or diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) in that they occurred in patients with type 2 diabetes and their blood sugar levels were only slightly increased.  Some factors identified as potentially triggering the acidosis included major illness, reduced food and fluid intake, and reduced insulin dose.
Common (1% to 10%): Increased low-density lipoprotein cholesterolFrequency not reported: HypoglycemiaPostmarketing reports: Acidosis including diabetic ketoacidosis, ketoacidosis, or ketosis
The most common reported side effects included urinary tract infections and female genital mycotic infections.
Common (1% to 10%): Pruritus
Common (1% to 10%): Nausea
Common (1% to 10%): Increased hematocrit
Common (1% to 10%): Arthralgia
Common (1% to 10%): Polydipsia
Common (1% to 10%): Upper respiratory tract infection
Bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
change in the color, amount, or odor of vaginal discharge
difficult, burning, or painful urination
frequent urge to urinate
itching, stinging, or redness of the vaginal area
lower back or side pain
pain during sexual intercourse
Discharge with a strong odor from the penis
increased volume of pale, dilute urine
redness, itching, swelling, or pain around the penis
waking to urinate at night
Anxiety
blurred vision
chills
cold sweats
confusion
decreased urination
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fast heartbeat
headache
increased hunger
nausea
nightmares
rapid breathing
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness
Dry mouth
fever
flushed, dry skin
frequent or painful urination
fruit-like breath odor
increased thirst
loss of appetite
loss of consciousness
stomach pain
swelling of the face, fingers, or lower legs
troubled breathing
unexplained weight loss
vomiting
weight gain
Body aches or pain
cough
loss of voice
muscle pain or stiffness
nasal congestion