Generic Name: potassium phosphate / sodium phosphate
Applies to potassium phosphate / sodium phosphate: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by potassium phosphate / sodium phosphate. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking potassium phosphate / sodium phosphate:
Some of the side effects that can occur with potassium phosphate / sodium phosphate may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to potassium phosphate / sodium phosphate: oral powder for reconstitution, oral tablet
There have been reports of a laxative effect occurring over the first few days of therapy.  Lowering the dose usually reverses this effect; however, discontinuation of therapy is sometimes necessary.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included a laxative effect.Gastrointestinal side effects associated with phosphate have included diarrhea, nausea, stomach pain, and vomiting.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects associated with phosphate have included bone and joint pain, and osteomalacia.Musculoskeletal side effects associated with potassium and/or sodium have included muscle cramps.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects associated with potassium and/or sodium have included headache, dizziness, mental confusion, seizures, weakness or heaviness of legs, unusual tiredness or weakness, numbness, tingling, pain, weakness of hands or feet, and numbness or tingling around lips.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects associated with potassium and/or sodium have included fast or irregular heartbeat, shortness of breath, troubled breathing, and swelling of feet or lower legs.[Ref]
Other side effects associated with potassium and/or sodium have included unusual weight gain and unusual thirst.[Ref]
Renal side effects associated with potassium and/or sodium have included low urine output.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. K-Phos Neutral (potassium phosphate)." Beach Pharmaceuticals, Tampa, FL. 
2. "Product Information. K-Phos M.F. (potassium phosphate-sodium phosphate)." Beach Pharmaceuticals, Tampa, FL. 
Not all side effects for K-Phos Neutral may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bone pain
convulsions
decreased urine output
dizziness
fast or irregular heartbeat
headache
joint pain
mental confusion
muscle cramps
numbness or tingling around the lips
numbness, tingling, pain, or weakness of the hands or feet
shortness of breath
swelling of the feet or lower legs
troubled breathing
unusual thirst
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight gain
weakness or heaviness of the legs


Diarrhea
nausea
stomach pain
vomiting

