Applies to kanamycin: injection solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by kanamycin. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking kanamycin, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with kanamycin may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to kanamycin: compounding powder, injectable solution, oral capsule
The major toxic effects associated with kanamycin therapy are ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity.  It is considered one of the more toxic aminoglycosides.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included neuromuscular blockade, ototoxicity resulting in loss of vestibular function secondary to hair cell damage, and irreversible or partially reversible bilateral hearing loss.  Nystagmus, vertigo, nausea, vomiting, and acute Meniere's syndrome are signs of vestibular dysfunction.  Cochlear damage may be asymptomatic and may initially manifest as minor changes in audiometric test results at higher frequencies. Aminoglycosides have been associated with acute muscular paralysis, apnea, peripheral neuropathy and encephalopathy (numbness, paresthesia, muscle twitching, seizures), and myasthenia gravis-like syndrome.  Neurotoxicity may occur after intrapleural, intraperitoneal, or parenteral administration.  Patients with renal impairment may be at a higher risk.[Ref]
Renal side effects have included nephrotoxicity, albuminuria, presence of red and white cells and granular casts, azotemia, oliguria, and increased serum creatinine and BUN.[Ref]
Dermatologic reactions have included skin rash.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.[Ref]
Local reactions have included pain at the injection site after intramuscular injection.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects associated with prolonged kanamycin treatment have included malabsorption syndrome manifested as increased fecal fat, decreased serum carotene, and decreased xylose absorption.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Kanamycin (kanamycin)." Raway Pharmacal Inc, Accord, NY. 
2. Peloquin CA,  Berning SE,  Nitta AT, et al. "Aminoglycoside Toxicity: Daily versus Thrice-Weekly Dosing for Treatment of Mycobacterial Diseases." Clin Infect Dis 38 (2004): 1538-44
Not all side effects for kanamycin may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Agitation
black, tarry stools
bloody or cloudy urine
bluish lips or skin
blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chest pain
chills
coma
confusion
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
cough
decreased urine output
depression
difficulty with breathing
difficulty with moving
dizziness or lightheadedness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
drowsiness
dry mouth
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
feeling of fullness in the ears
fever
headache
irritability
lethargy
loss of balance
loss or change in hearing
muscle pain or stiffness
muscle twitching
nausea
not breathing
pain in lower back or side
pain in the joints
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
rapid weight gain
seizures
sensation of spinning
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stupor
sweating
swelling of the face, ankles, or hands
swollen glands
thirst
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
trouble with hearing
troubled breathing with exertion
uncontrolled eye movements
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness


Diarrhea
increased amount of gas
light-colored, frothy, or fatty-appearing stools
skin rash
sudden loss of weight
vomiting

