Commonly reported side effects of ketotifen ophthalmic include: conjunctival injection, headache, and rhinitis.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to ketotifen ophthalmic: oral syrup, oral tablet
Other dosage forms:
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by ketotifen ophthalmic. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking ketotifen ophthalmic, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking ketotifen ophthalmic, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with ketotifen ophthalmic may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to ketotifen ophthalmic: ophthalmic solution
Common (1% to 10%): Irritation, pain, punctate keratitis, punctate corneal epithelial erosionUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Blurred vision, dry eye, eyelid disorder, conjunctivitis, photophobia, conjunctival hemorrhagePostmarketing reports: Swelling, eyelid pruritus, edema[Ref]
Ketotifen instillation was associated with mild to moderate burning or stinging in 98% of patients (n=35) in one trial.[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Headache, somnolencePostmarketing reports: Dizziness[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Exacerbation of asthma[Ref]
The most commonly reported adverse effects have included eye irritation, eye pain, punctate keratitis, and punctate corneal epithelial erosion.[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Rash, eczema, urticariaPostmarketing reports: Contact dermatitis, facial edema, exacerbation of eczema[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Dry mouth[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Hypersensitivity, allergic reactionsPostmarketing reports: Exacerbation of preexisting allergic conditions[Ref]
1. Yanni JM, Stephens DJ, Miller ST, Weimer LK, Graff G, Parnell D, Lang LS, Spellman JM, Brady MT, Gamache DA "The in vitro and in vivo ocular pharmacology of olopatadine (AL- 4943A), an effective anti-allergic/antihistaminic agent." J Ocul Pharmacol Ther 12 (1996): 389-400
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
3. Artal MN, Luna JD, Discepola M "A forced choice comfort study of olopatadine hydrochloride 0.1% versus ketotifen fumarate 0.05%." Acta Ophthalmol Scandinavica 78 (2000): 64-5
4. "Product Information. Zaditor (ketotifen ophthalmic)" Ciba Vision Ophthalmics, Duluth, GA. 
Not all side effects for ketotifen ophthalmic may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
ophthalmic solution

Chills
cough
 diarrhea
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
joint pain
loss of appetite
muscle aches and pains
nausea
runny nose
shivering
sore throat
sweating
trouble sleeping
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting


Abdominal or stomach pain
blistering, itching, peeling, or redness of skin
bloody or cloudy urine
clay-colored stools
 convulsions
dark urine
 difficult, burning, or painful urination
dizziness 
frequent urge to urinate
 muscle spasm or jerking of all extremities
rash 
sudden loss of consciousness
 unpleasant breath odor
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin


Blurred vision
confusion
convulsions
disorientation
dizziness
drowsiness (severe)
faintness or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
hyperexcitability
 loss of consciousness
palpitations
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness 


Weight gain


Bloody nose
drowsiness
dryness of mouth
excitation
increased appetite
irritability
nervousness
swelling of eyelids
unexplained nosebleeds

