Generic Name: sincalide
Applies to sincalide: intravenous powder for solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by sincalide (the active ingredient contained in Kinevac). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking sincalide, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some of the side effects that can occur with sincalide may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to sincalide: injectable powder for injection, intravenous powder for injection
Gastrointestinal side effects have included abdominal discomfort or pain and nausea.  Rapid IV injection of 0.04 mcg sincalide (the active ingredient contained in Kinevac) per kg would be expected to cause transient abdominal cramping.  These side effects are usually manifestations of the physiologic action of the drug, including delayed gastric emptying and increased intestinal motility.  These side effects occurred in approximately 20% of patients but they are not to be construed as necessarily indicating an abnormality of the biliary tract unless there is other clinical or radiologic evidence of disease.[Ref]
Reactions to sincalide (the active ingredient contained in Kinevac) are usually mild and of short duration.  Adverse reactions including vomiting, flushing, sweating, rash, hypotension, hypertension, shortness of breath, urge to defecate, headache, diarrhea, sneezing, and numbness were less than 1%.  Dizziness was reported in approximately 2% of patients.  These manifestations are usually attenuated by a slower injection rate.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Kinevac (sincalide)." Bristol-Myers Squibb, Princeton, NJ. 
Not all side effects for Kinevac may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Dizziness, fainting, or lightheadedness
 increase in blood pressure
shortness of breath
skin rash


Abdominal or stomach pain, cramps, or discomfort
nausea


Diarrhea
dizziness
 flushing or redness of skin
headache
increased sweating
numbness
sneezing
urge to have bowel movement 
vomiting

