Generic Name: diphtheria toxoid / pertussis, acellular / poliovirus vaccine, inactivated / tetanus toxoid
Applies to diphtheria toxoid / pertussis, acellular / poliovirus vaccine, inactivated / tetanus toxoid: intramuscular suspension
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by diphtheria toxoid / pertussis, acellular / poliovirus vaccine, inactivated / tetanus toxoid. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking diphtheria toxoid / pertussis, acellular / poliovirus vaccine, inactivated / tetanus toxoid, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with diphtheria toxoid / pertussis, acellular / poliovirus vaccine, inactivated / tetanus toxoid may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to diphtheria toxoid / pertussis, acellular / poliovirus vaccine, inactivated / tetanus toxoid: intramuscular suspension
General side effects have included drowsiness, fever, and loss of appetite.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included anaphylactoid reactions, anaphylaxis, angioedema, and urticaria, apnea, collapse or shocklike state (hypotonic-hyporesponsive episode), convulsions (with or without fever), lymphadenopathy, and thrombocytopenia.[Ref]
Local side effects have included pain, redness, swelling, and increase in arm circumference.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included gastroenteritis and dehydration.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Kinrix (diphtheria/pertussis,acel/tetanus/polio)." GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC. 
Not all side effects for Kinrix may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Abdominal or stomach pain
blurred vision
confusion
decreased urination
diarrhea
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
dizziness
dry mouth
fainting
fast heartbeat
fever
inability to speak
irritability
itching, pain, redness, swelling, tenderness, or warmth on the skin
lightheadedness
loss of appetite
muscle twitching
nausea
rapid breathing
restlessness
seizures
severe or sudden headache
slurred speech
sunken eyes
swelling of the feet or lower legs
temporary blindness
thirst
unusual tiredness or weakness
weakness
weakness in the arm and/or leg on one side of the body, sudden and severe
wrinkled skin


Black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
bluish lips or skin
collapse or shock-like state
cough
difficulty swallowing
hives
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
pinpoint red spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
skin rash
slow breathing
swollen, painful, or tender lymph glands in neck, armpit, or groin
tightness in the chest
unusual bleeding or bruising


Loss of appetite
pain, redness, or swelling at the injection site
sleepiness

