Generic Name: furosemide
Applies to furosemide: oral solution, oral tablet
Other dosage forms:
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by furosemide (the active ingredient contained in Lasix). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking furosemide:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking furosemide, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with furosemide may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to furosemide: compounding powder, injectable solution, intravenous solution, oral liquid, oral solution, oral tablet
Volume depletion may predispose some patients to deep venous thrombosis.In a study of patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) due to myocardial infarction, furosemide (the active ingredient contained in Lasix) has been shown to decrease left ventricular end diastolic pressure and decrease peripheral vascular resistance before a significant increase in urine output or decrease in arterial blood pressure is observed.However, in patients with advanced, chronic CHF, the IV administration of furosemide may result in an acute vasoconstrictor response associated with an acute increase in vasoconstrictive hormones, such as norepinephrine, renin, and arginine vasopressin (AVP).After central venous catheter administration of furosemide 125 mg, 3rd degree AV heart block was observed in a very ill patient (one case report).  Because no other etiology was found, it was believed that the relatively high pH of furosemide and/or the rapid rate of administration caused the arrhythmia.Furosemide may increase cholesterol and triglyceride serum levels.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have commonly included intravascular volume depletion and hypotension.  Signs and symptoms of furosemide-induced volume depletion have included thirst, muscle cramps, weakness, dizziness, lightheadedness, syncope, tachycardia, palpitations, and dry skin.  In addition, these signs and symptoms have often been associated with a hypochloremic metabolic alkalosis and increased serum BUN and creatinine.[Ref]
Hyperuricemia is usually a benign side effect, but may be important in some patients with a history of gout.Although less so than with thiazide diuretics, furosemide (the active ingredient contained in Lasix) may induce a relative glucose intolerance, which may be important in some patients, such as diabetics.Rare instances of hypocalcemia have been reported in patients with latent hypoparathyroidism, in which case both calcium and magnesium replacement may be helpful.Metabolic abnormalities may be more likely and severe in patients with liver disease.  If a patient has severe liver disease, frequent monitoring of the patient's electrolytes is recommended.Calcium balance appears to remain neutral during treatment with a loop diuretic (i.e., furosemide, bumetanide).  Although loop diuretics cause an increase in renal calcium excretion, this appears to be compensated for by a parathyroid-dependent increase in 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D levels, which increases intestinal calcium absorption.  Bone metabolism does not appear to be significantly affected by loop diuretics.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects including hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, and an increase in serum uric acid, have been relatively common especially with higher doses.  Although less common than with thiazide diuretics, mild hyperlipidemia and hypercholesterolemia have been associated with the use of furosemide.  A single study suggests that chronic furosemide therapy is associated with clinically significant thiamine deficiency via urinary thiamine loss.  This may be important in patients with congestive heart failure since thiamine deficiency may impair cardiac performance.  Furosemide has been reported to displace thyroxine (T4) from protein-binding sites.  When administered in large intravenous doses (above 80 mg), a transient increase in serum free T4 concentrations and decrease in serum total T4 concentrations have been reported.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity reactions to furosemide (the active ingredient contained in Lasix) have been uncommon.  Rashes, fever, malaise, interstitial nephritis, and eosinophilia have been reported.  Severe anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions (e.g., with shock) have been reported.[Ref]
Furosemide contains a sulfur moiety, and may induce an allergic reaction in some patients with a history of sulfa sensitivity.Rare cases of interstitial nephritis and hypersensitivity angiitis associated with furosemide have been reported.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included headaches and dizziness.  Cases of tinnitus and reversible or irreversible hearing impairment and deafness have been reported.[Ref]
The doses of furosemide in cases of tinnitus, vertigo, or deafness ranged from 0.24 grams IV given over 40 minutes to 3 grams IV in divided doses over 9 hours and 2 grams IV in a single dose.  It is recommended that infusion rates not exceed 4 mg/min to minimize the risk of ototoxicity.Ototoxicity may be more likely and more severe due in patients with renal insufficiency.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included hepatic encephalopathy in patients with hepatocellular insufficiency, pancreatitis, jaundice (intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice), anorexia, oral and gastric irritation, cramping, diarrhea, constipation, nausea, and vomiting.[Ref]
Cholestatic jaundice may be important in patients with liver disease.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included rare cases of cholestatic jaundice and increased liver enzymes.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included eosinophilia.  Thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia, and leukopenia have been very rare.[Ref]
Dermatologic reactions, such as bullous pemphigoid have been reported in rare cases.  Exfoliative dermatitis, erythema multiforme, purpura, photosensitivity, urticaria, rash, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and pruritus have also been reported.  At least two cases of Sweet syndrome related to use of furosemide (the active ingredient contained in Lasix) have been reported.  In one case, Sweet syndrome was characterized by low-grade fever, tender, papular, erythematous, nonpruritic skin lesions on the arms and thighs, and redness in the eyes with photophobia.  Papuloerythroderma of Ofuji has also been associated with furosemide use.Dermatologic side effects reported postmarketing have included drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis.[Ref]
One patient experienced acute generalized exanthematic pustulosis a few hours after receiving intravenous furosemide.[Ref]
Renal side effects have included nephrocalcinosis/nephrolithiasis in premature infants treated with furosemide (the active ingredient contained in Lasix)  therefore renal function should be monitored and renal ultrasonography performed.[Ref]
1. Roesner M "The loop diuretics: focus on furosemide and ethacrynic acid." N C Med J 47 (1986): 93-6
2. Massari P, Moore N, Bonmarchand G, et al "Complete atrio-ventricular block after furosemide." Intensive Care Med 12 (1986): 54-5
3. Ponto LL, Schoenwald RD "Furosemide (frusemide): a pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic review." Clin Pharmacokinet 18 (1990): 381-408
4. Dikshit K, Vyden JK, Forrester JS, et al "Renal and extrarenal hemodynamic effects of furemoside in congestive heart failure after acute myocardial infarction." N Engl J Med 288 (1973): 1087-90
5. Seligmann H, Halkin H, Rauchfleisch S, et al "Thiamine deficiency in patients with congestive heart failure receiving long-term furosemide therapy: a pilot study." Am J Med 91 (1991): 151-5
6. Sommers SC, Higgins TE, Kimelblatt BJ "Chronic aortitis following furosemide therapy." Arch Pathol Lab Med 108 (1984): 293-4
7. Campbell N, Brant R, Stalts H, Stone J, Mahallati H "Fluctuations in blood lipid levels during furosemide therapy: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study." Arch Intern Med 158 (1998): 1461-3
8. Dimitriadis G, Tegos C, Golfinopoulou L, Roboti C, Raptis S "Furosemide-induced hyperglycaemia - the implication of glycolytic kinases." Horm Metab Res 25 (1993): 557-9
9. Rejnmark L,  Vestergaard P,  Heickendorff L,  Andreasen F,  Mosekilde L "Effects of thiazide- and loop-diuretics, alone or in combination, on calcitropic hormones and biochemical bone markers: a randomized controlled study." J Intern Med 250 (2001): 144-53
10. Bashey A, MacNee W "Tetany induced by frusemide in latent hypoparathyroidism." Br Med J 295 (1987): 960-1
11. Donatucci CF, Deshon GE, Wade CE, Hunt M "Furosemide-induced disturbances of renal function in patients undergoing TURP." Urology 35 (1990): 295-300
12. vanderHeijden M, Donders SH, Cleophas TJ, Niemeyer MG, vanderMeulen J, Bernink PJ, dePlanque BA, vanderWall EE "A randomized, placebo-controlled study of loop diuretics in patients with essential hypertension: The bumetanide and furosemide on lipid profile (BUFUL) clinical study report." J Clin Pharmacol 38 (1998): 630-5
13. Campbell NRC, Wickert WA, Shumak SL "Frusemide causes acute increases in lipid concentrations." Br J Clin Pharmacol 36 (1993): 607-9
14. Rejnmark L,  Vestergaard P,  Heickendorff L,  Andreasen F,  Mosekilde L "Effects of long-term treatment with loop diuretics on bone mineral density, calcitropic hormones and bone turnover." J Intern Med 257 (2005): 176-84
15. Surks MI, Sievert R "Drugs and thyroid function." N Engl J Med 333 (1995): 1688-94
16. Tambyah JA, Lim MK "Effect of furesomide on calcium excretion." Br Med J 03/22/69 (1969): 751-2
17. Lin RY "Unusual autoimmune manifestations in furosemide-associated hypersensitivity angiitis." N Y State J Med 88 (1988): 439-40
18. Clegg HW, Riopel DA "Furosemide-associated fever." J Pediatr 126 (1995): 817-8
19. Amir J, Varsano I "Furosemide-associated fever." J Pediatr 128 (1996): 163-4
20. Siddiqui MA, Zaman MN "Recurrent and chronic leg ulcers secondary to furosemide-induced bullous pemphigoid." J Am Geriatr Soc 43 (1995): 1183-4
21. Garty BZ "Furosemide-associated fever: Drug fever or dehydration fever?" J Pediatr 130 (1997): 499
22. Clegg HW, Riopel DA "Furosemide-associated fever: Drug fever or dehydration fever? - Reply." J Pediatr 130 (1997): 500
23. Hansbrough JR, Wedner HJ, Chaplin DD "Anaphylaxis to intravenous furosemide." J Allergy Clin Immunol 80 (1987): 538-41
24. David D, Hitzig P "Diuretics and ototoxicity." N Engl J Med 284 (1971): 1328
25. Schwartz G "Ototoxicity induced by furosemide." N Engl J Med 282 (1970): 1413
26. Quick CA, Hoppe W "Permanent deafness associated with furosemide administration." Ann Otol Rhinol Laryngol 84 (1975): 94-101
27. Venkateswaran P "Transient deafness from high doses of furosemide." Br Med J 4 (1971): 113
28. Vargish T, Benjamin R, Shenkman L "Deafness from furosemide." Ann Intern Med 72 (1970): 761
29. Heidland A, Wigand N "Influence of high doses of furosemide on hearing of uremic patients." Klin Wochenschr 48 (1970): 1052
30. Lloyd-Mostyn R, Lord I "Ototoxicity of intravenous furosemide." Lancet 2 (1971): 1156
31. "Product Information. Lasix (furosemide)." sanofi-aventis , Bridgewater, NJ. 
32. Braithwaite PA "Long-term high-dose mebendazole for cystic hydatid disease of liver: failure in two cases." Aust N Z J Surg 51 (1981): 23-6
33. Noce R, Paredes BE, Pichler WJ, Krahenbuhl S "Acute generalized exanthematic pustulosis (AGEP) in a patient treated with furosemide." Am J Med Sci 320 (2000): 331-3
34. Govindarajan G,  Bashir Q,  Kuppuswamy S,  Brooks C "Sweet syndrome associated with furosemide." South Med J 98 (2005): 570-2
35. Castel T, Gratacos R, Castro J, et al "Bullous pemphigold induced by frusemide." Clin Exp Dermatol 6 (1981): 635-8
36. Sugita K,  Kabashima K,  Nakashima D,  Tokura Y "Papuloerythroderma of Ofuji induced by furosemide." J Am Acad Dermatol 58(2 Suppl) (2008): S54-5
37. Koch CA, Mazzaferri EL, Larry JA, Fanning TS "Bullous pemphigoid after treatment with furosemide." Cutis 58 (1996): 340-4
38. Jennings M, Maddocks JL "Interstitial nephritis associated with frusemide." J R Soc Med 79 (1986): 239-40
Not all side effects for Lasix may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
injection injectable, injection solution

Chest pain
chills
cough or hoarseness
fever
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
headache
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swollen or painful glands
tightness in the chest
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
wheezing


Back or leg pains
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating
blood in the urine or stools
blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
changes in skin color, pain, tenderness, or swelling of the foot or leg
clay-colored stools
cloudy urine
cold sweats
confusion
constipation
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
coughing up blood
cracks in the skin
darkened urine
diarrhea
difficulty breathing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position
dry mouth
fast heartbeat
flushed, dry skin
fruit-like breath odor
greatly decreased frequency of urination or amount of urine
hearing loss
increased hunger
increased thirst
indigestion
itching
loss of appetite
nausea or vomiting
nosebleeds
pain in the joints or muscles
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
red, irritated eyes
red, swollen skin
skin rash
spots on your skin resembling a blister or pimple
sweating
swelling of the feet or lower legs
trouble breathing with exertion
unusual weight loss
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin


Decreased urination
drowsiness
increase in heart rate
irregular heartbeat
irritability
mood changes
muscle cramps
numbness, tingling, pain, or weakness in the hands, feet, or lips
rapid breathing
seizures
sunken eyes
thirst
trembling
weak pulse
weakness and heaviness of the legs
wrinkled skin


Feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
hives or welts
increased sensitivity of the skin to sunlight
muscle spasm
redness or other discoloration of the skin
restlessness
sensation of spinning
severe sunburn
weakness

