Generic Name: chlorambucil
Applies to chlorambucil: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by chlorambucil (the active ingredient contained in Leukeran). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking chlorambucil:
Some of the side effects that can occur with chlorambucil may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to chlorambucil: compounding powder, oral tablet
Bone marrow suppression has been reported to usually be reversible if chlorambucil (the active ingredient contained in Leukeran) is withdrawn early enough.  However, irreversible bone marrow failure has been reported.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects including bone marrow suppression have been the most commonly reported with the use of chlorambucil.  Anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and pancytopenia have also been reported.[Ref]
Most nervous system effects have been reported to resolve upon discontinuation of the drug.The manufacturer has noted that children with nephrotic syndrome and patients receiving high pulse doses of chlorambucil (the active ingredient contained in Leukeran) may have an increased risk of seizures.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects including coma, tremors, muscular twitching, confusion, agitation, ataxia, flaccid paresis, hallucinations, and focal and/or generalized seizures have been reported rarely.  Peripheral neuropathy has also been reported.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included skin hypersensitivity with rare reports of skin rash progressing to erythema multiforme, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and oral ulceration have been reported infrequently.  Jaundice has also been reported.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects including pulmonary fibrosis and interstitial pneumonia have been reported.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects including hepatotoxicity have been reported.  A case of chlorambucil-induced acute hepatic failure has been reported in a patient with membranous nephropathy.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects including sterile cystitis and infertility have been reported.[Ref]
Oncologic side effects including leukemia and secondary malignancies have been reported.[Ref]
General side effects including drug fever have been reported.[Ref]
Ocular side effects including one case of visual failure and optic atrophy have been reported.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects including lethargy and stupor have been reported.[Ref]
1. Rudd P, Fries JF, Epstein WV "Irreversible bone marrow failure with chlorambucil." J Rheumatol 2 (1975): 421-9
2. "Product Information. Leukeran Tablets (chlorambucil)." Glaxo Welcome, Research Triangle Pk, NC. 
3. Williams SA, Makker SP, Grupe WE "Seizures: a significant side effect of chlorambucil therapy in children." J Pediatr 93 (1978): 516-8
4. Giles FJ, Smith MP, Goldstone AH "Chlorambucil lung toxicity." Acta Haematol 83 (1990): 156-8
5. Crestani B, Jaccard A, Israel-Biet D, Couderc LJ, Frija J, Clauvel JP "Chlorambucil-associated pneumonitis." Chest 105 (1994): 634-6
6. Patel SP, Nast CC, Adler SG "Chlorambucil-induced acute hepatic failure in a patient with membranous nephropathy." Am J Kidney Dis 36 (2000): 401-4
7. Palmer RG, Denman AM "Malignancies induced by chlorambucil." Cancer Treat Rev 11 (1984): 121-9
8. Yiannakis PH, Larner AJ "Visual failure and optic atrophy associated with chlorambucil therapy." BMJ 306 (1993): 109
Not all side effects for Leukeran may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
chest pain
cough or hoarseness, accompanied by fever or chills
fever or chills
lower back or side pain, accompanied by fever or chills
painful or difficult urination, accompanied by fever or chills
pinpoint red spots on the skin
shortness of breath
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swollen glands
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness


Itching
joint pain
large, swollen hives
skin rash
swelling of the feet or lower legs


Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
diarrhea
muscle pain
muscle twitching
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
seizures
shakiness and unsteady walk
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
sore throat
sudden jerky movements of the body
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination


Abdominal or stomach pain or tenderness
bone pain
clay colored stools
dark urine
decreased appetite
difficult breathing
headache
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
trouble getting pregnant
troubled or quick, shallow breathing
yellow eyes or skin


Changes in menstrual period
nausea and vomiting


Anxiety
confusion
dry mouth
hyperventilation
irregular heartbeats
irritability
no muscle tone or movement
restlessness
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
trouble sleeping


Hives or welts

