Common side effects of Levemir include: severe hypoglycemia.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Adverse reactions associated with insulin detemir (the active ingredient contained in Levemir) include hypoglycemia, allergic reactions, injection site reactions, lipodystrophy, rash, and pruritus.
Severe hypoglycemia defined as third party intervention, occurred in approximately 6% of patients receiving insulin detemir (the active ingredient contained in Levemir) in clinical trials.  Weight gain has been reported with insulin therapy and has been attributed to the anabolic effects of insulin and the decrease in glucosuria.
Very common (10% or more): HypoglycemiaFrequency not reported: Weight gain
Injection site reactions seem to occur more frequently with insulin detemir (the active ingredient contained in Levemir) than with human insulin products.  Reactions have included pain, redness, hives, inflammation, bruising, swelling, and itching at the injection site.  Most injection site reactions have been minor and transitory, disappearing in a few days to a few weeks, even with continued treatment.
Common (1% to 10%): Injection site reactionsUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Injection site pain
Hypersensitivity side effects have included both local and systemic reactions.  Anaphylaxis has been reported.  Local reactions have presented as erythema, local edema, and pruritus at the injection site.  Most minor reactions to insulin at the injection site resolve in a few days to a few weeks.  Allergic reactions and potentially allergic reactions were reported more frequently in 3 clinical studies with subjects receiving combination oral antidiabetic agents compared with the frequency across all studies (2.2% versus 0.1% to 1%).
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Allergic reactions
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Peripheral edema
Insulin may cause sodium retention and edema, especially as metabolic control is improving.
Frequency not reported: Refraction disorder, worsening of diabetic retinopathy
Rapid improvement in glucose control has been associated with a transitory, reversible ophthalmologic refraction disorder and worsening of diabetic retinopathy.  However, long-term glycemic control decreases the risk of diabetic retinopathy.
Common (1% to 10%): LipohypertrophyUncommon (0.1% to 1%): LipoatrophyPostmarketing reports: Rash urticaria
In phase 3 trials, antibody development with no apparent impact on glycemic control was observed.
Very common (10% or more): Influenza-like illness (up to 13%)Common (1% to 10%): Viral infectionFrequency not reported: Antibody development
Common (1% to 10%): Pyrexia, fatigue
Very common (10% or more): Gastroenteritis (up to 16%), abdominal pain (up to 13%)	Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, vomiting, toothache
Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infection
Rapid improvement in glucose control has been associated with a transitory, reversible acute painful peripheral neuropathy.  However, long-term glycemic control decreases the risk.
Very common (10% or more): Headache (up to 31%) Common (1% to 10%): Migraine, dizzinessRare (less than 0.1%): Painful peripheral neuropathy
Very common (10% or more): Upper respiratory tract infection (up to 35%), pharyngitis (up to 17%)Common (1% to 10%): Bronchitis, cough, rhinitis, sinusitis
Anxiety
blurred vision
chills
cold sweats
confusion
cool, pale skin
cough
depression
difficulty swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
fever
headache
hives
hoarseness
increased hunger
irritation
itching
joint pain
nausea
nightmares
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
redness of the skin
seizures
shakiness
skin rash
slurred speech
stiffness or swelling
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, hands, or feet
tightness in the chest
trouble breathing
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site
decrease in the amount of urine
noisy, rattling breathing
redistribution or accumulation of body fat
swelling of the fingers, hands, feet, or lower legs
trouble breathing at rest
weight gain