Generic Name: vardenafil
Common side effects of Levitra include: headache and flushing. Other side effects include: dyspepsia and rhinitis.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to vardenafil: oral tablet, oral tablet disintegrating
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by vardenafil (the active ingredient contained in Levitra). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking vardenafil:
Some of the side effects that can occur with vardenafil may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to vardenafil: oral tablet, oral tablet disintegrating
The most commonly reported adverse reaction is headache.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Flushing (11%)Common (1% to 10%): Palpitation, tachycardia, angina pectoris, myocardial infarction, ventricular tachyarrhythmias, hypotensionRare (less than 0.1%): HypertensionPostmarketing reports: Serious cerebrovascular hemorrhage, sudden cardiac death, transient ischemic attack, unstable angina and ventricular arrhythmia have been reported in temporal association with another medicinal product in this class.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Headache (15%)Common (1% to 10%): Dizziness, paresthesia and dysesthesia, somnolence, sleep disorder, syncope, amnesia, seizurePostmarketing reports: Seizure, seizure recurrence, transient global amnesia[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Erythema, rash, angioedema, allergic edemaRare (less than 0.1%): Photosensitivity reaction[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Dyspepsia, nausea, gastrointestinal and abdominal pain, dry mouth, diarrhea, gastroesophageal reflux disease, gastritis, vomiting[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Increase in erectionRare (less than 0.1%): PriapismPostmarketing reports: Penile hemorrhage, hematospermia[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Increase in transaminasesRare (less than 0.1%) Increase in gamma-glutamyl-transferase[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Allergic reactions
Common (1% to 10%): Back pain, increase in creatine phosphokinase (CPK), increased muscle tone and cramping, myalgia[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Visual disturbance, ocular hyperemia, visual color distortions, eye pain and eye discomfort, photophobia, increase in intraocular pressure, conjunctivitisRare (less than 0.1%): Increased lacrimationPostmarketing reports: Non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION), visual disturbances including vision loss (temporary or permanent), such as visual field defect, retinal vein occlusion, and reduced visual acuity.[Ref]
Non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION), a cause of decreased vision including permanent loss of vision, has been reported rarely postmarketing in temporal association with the use of phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) inhibitors, including vardenafil.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Accidental injury, flu syndrome, tinnitus, vertigo, chest pain, feeling unwellPostmarketing reports: Cases of sudden decrease or loss of hearing in temporal association with the use of PDE5 inhibitors, including this drug[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Increased creatinine kinasePostmarketing reports: Hematuria[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Rhinitis, sinusitis, dyspnea, sinus congestion, nasal congestionRare (less than 0.1%): Epistaxis[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Levitra (vardenafil)." Bayer, West Haven, CT. 
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
3. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
4. "Product Information. Staxyn (vardenafil)." Merck & Company Inc, Whitehouse Station, NJ. 
Not all side effects for Levitra may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Arm, back, or jaw pain
blindness
blurred vision
chest pain or discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
chills
cold sweats
confusion
decreased vision
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
eye pain
fainting
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
headache
hives, itching, or skin rash
nausea
nervousness
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
pounding in the ears
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
slow or fast heartbeat
sweating
tearing
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting


Hearing loss


Feeling of warmth and redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
sneezing
stuffy nose


Abnormal ejaculation
abdominal or stomach pain
abnormal vision
acid or sour stomach
back pain
belching
bloody nose
body aches or pain
burning feeling in the chest or stomach
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
changes in color vision
changes in vision
congestion
cough
diarrhea
difficulty seeing at night
difficulty with moving
difficulty with swallowing
dim vision
dry mouth
dryness or soreness of the throat
excessive muscle tone
eye pain
face swelling
fast heartbeat
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
heartburn
hoarseness
increased redness of the eye
increased sensitivity of the eyes to sunlight
indigestion
joint pain
lack or loss of strength
loss of appetite
muscle aches and pains
muscle cramping
muscle stiffness
muscle tension or tightness
neck pain
pain or burning in the throat
runny nose
sensation of spinning
shivering
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or tongue or inside the mouth
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
swollen joints
tender, swollen glands in the neck
tenderness in the stomach area
trouble with sleeping
trouble with swallowing
voice changes
watery eyes

