Generic Name: fluocinonide topical
Applies to fluocinonide topical: topical application cream, topical application emollient cream, topical application gel/jelly, topical application ointment, topical application solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by fluocinonide topical (the active ingredient contained in Lidex-E). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking fluocinonide topical:
Some of the side effects that can occur with fluocinonide topical may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to fluocinonide topical: compounding powder, topical cream, topical gel, topical ointment, topical solution
The most commonly reported side effects were burning, itching, irritation, and dryness.
Postmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Application site burningFrequency not reported: Itching, drynessPostmarketing reports: Discoloration, erythema, pruritus, swelling, pain, condition aggravated[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): HeadacheFrequency not reported: Intracranial hypertension (including bulging fontanelles, bilateral papilledema)Postmarketing reports: Dizziness[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, miliariaPostmarketing reports: Acne, dry skin, rash, skin exfoliation, skin tightness[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hyperglycemia, glucosuria[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%) Nasopharyngitis, nasal congestion[Ref]
1. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
2. "Product Information. Lidex (fluocinonide)." Syntex Laboratories Inc, Palo Alto, CA. 
Not all side effects for Lidex-E may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Blistering, burning, crusting, dryness, or flaking of the skin
irritation
itching, scaling, severe redness, soreness, or swelling of the skin
redness and scaling around the mouth
thinning of the skin with easy bruising, especially when used on the face or where the skin folds together (e.g. between the fingers)
thinning, weakness, or wasting away of the skin


Fever
headache
muscle aches
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
unusual tiredness or weakness


Acne or pimples
burning and itching of the skin with pinhead-sized red blisters
burning, itching, and pain in hairy areas, or pus at the root of the hair
increased hair growth on the forehead, back, arms, and legs
lightening of normal skin color
lightening of treated areas of dark skin
reddish purple lines on the arms, face, legs, trunk, or groin
softening of the skin

