Generic Name: desonide topical
Applies to desonide topical: topical application cream, topical application foam, topical application gel/jelly, topical application lotion, topical application ointment
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by desonide topical (the active ingredient contained in LoKara). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking desonide topical:
Some of the side effects that can occur with desonide topical may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to desonide topical: compounding powder, topical cream, topical foam, topical gel, topical kit, topical lotion, topical ointment
The most commonly reported side effects were headache, insomnia, impetigo, skin infection, and rash.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Allergic reaction including facial edema[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Impetigo, skin infection, rashFrequency not reported: Folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, miliariaPostmarketing reports: Pruritus, skin disorder[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Burning, itching, irritation, dryness[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Flu syndrome aggravated[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Headache, insomnia[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hyperglycemia, glucosuria, latent diabetes mellitus[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Tridesilon (desonide topical)." Bayer, West Haven, CT. 
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
3. "Product Information. Desowen (desonide topical)." Galderma Laboratories Inc, Fort Worth, TX. 
Not all side effects for LoKara may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Blistering, burning, crusting, dryness, or flaking of the skin
burning, itching, redness, skin rash, swelling, or soreness at the application site
flushing or redness of the skin
irritation
itching, scaling, severe redness, soreness, or swelling of the skin
peeling of the skin
raised, dark red, wart-like spots on the skin, especially when used on the face
stinging and burning
unusually warm skin


Redness and scaling around the mouth
thinning of the skin with easy bruising, especially when used on the face or where the skin folds together (e.g., between the fingers)


Body aches or pain
chills
cough
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
fever
headache
loss of voice
nasal congestion
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness


Cold flu-like symptoms
congestion
cough
hoarseness
irritability
noisy breathing
shortness of breath
tender, swollen glands in the neck
tightness in the chest
trouble with swallowing
voice changes
wheezing


Acne or pimples
burning and itching of the skin with pinhead-sized red blisters
burning, itching, and pain in hairy areas, or pus at the root of the hair
lightening of normal skin color
lightening of treated areas of dark skin
reddish purple lines on the arms, face, legs, trunk, or groin

