Generic Name: atropine / diphenoxylate
Applies to atropine / diphenoxylate: oral solution, oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by atropine / diphenoxylate. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking atropine / diphenoxylate:
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking atropine / diphenoxylate:
Some of the side effects that can occur with atropine / diphenoxylate may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:
After you stop taking this drug, it is possible that you may still experience side effects that need medical attention. If you notice any of the following side effects check with your doctor immediately:


Applies to atropine / diphenoxylate: oral liquid, oral tablet
Frequency not reported: Numbness of extremities, sedation/drowsiness, dizziness, headache, somnolence[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Swelling of the gums, toxic megacolon, paralytic ileus, pancreatitis, vomiting, nausea, abdominal discomfort, constipation[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Tachycardia, cardiac irregularities (e.g.  arrhythmias, bradycardia, palpitations)[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Increased intraocular pressure, dilation of pupils with loss of accommodation, photophobia, angle closure glaucoma[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Urinary retention, difficulty in micturition[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Euphoria, depression, confusion, restlessness, hallucinations[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Urticaria, pruritus, flushing[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Anaphylaxis, angioneurotic edema[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Anorexia[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Respiratory depression in children[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Malaise/lethargy, hyperthermia, dryness of the skin and mucous membranes[Ref]
1. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
3. "Product Information. Lomotil (diphenoxylate-atropine)." Searle, Skokie, IL. 
Not all side effects for Lonox may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bloating
constipation
loss of appetite
stomach pain (severe) with nausea and vomiting


Blurred vision (continuing) or changes in near vision
drowsiness (severe)
dryness of mouth, nose, and throat (severe)
fast heartbeat
shortness of breath or troubled breathing (severe)
unusual excitement, nervousness, restlessness, or irritability 
unusual warmth, dryness, and flushing of the skin 


Blurred vision
confusion
difficult urination
dizziness or light-headedness 
drowsiness
dryness of skin and mouth
fever
 headache
increased body temperature
mental depression
numbness of hands or feet
skin rash or itching
 swelling of the gums


Increased sweating
muscle cramps
nausea or vomiting
shivering or trembling 
stomach cramps

