Generic Name: loxapine
Applies to loxapine: oral capsule, oral solution, oral tablet
Other dosage forms:
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by loxapine (the active ingredient contained in Loxitane). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking loxapine:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking loxapine, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with loxapine may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to loxapine: inhalation powder, intramuscular solution, oral capsule, oral concentrate
The most common adverse reactions reported with use of the inhaler were dysgeusia, sedation and throat irritation.  Drowsiness, extrapyramidal reactions and akathisia have been reported frequently, especially during the first few days of oral therapy.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Sedation (inhaler 12%)Common (1% to 10%): Drowsiness, extrapyramidal reactions, akathisiaUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Dizziness, faintness, staggering gait, shuffling gait, muscle twitching, weakness, insomnia, agitation, tension, seizures, akinesia, slurred speech, numbness, confusional stateFrequency not reported: Headache, lightheadedness, paresthesia, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, seizures, dystonia, tardive dyskinesia[Ref]
Drowsiness has been frequently reported at the beginning of therapy or when the dosage is increased.  It is generally mild and usually subsides with continued therapy.  The incidence of sedation has been reported as less than certain aliphatic phenothiazines, and more than the piperazine phenothiazines.[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Bronchospasm (inhaler)Frequency not reported: Dyspnea, nasal congestion[Ref]
Use of the inhaler was shown to cause bronchospasm in clinical pulmonary safety trials as measured by FEV1 and respiratory signs and symptoms.  Additionally, patients with asthma or other pulmonary diseases were shown to be at higher risk and the effect of FEV1 was greater following the second dose (administered 10 hours later).[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Weight gain, weight loss, polydipsia[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Dysgeusia (inhaler, 14%) Common (1% to 10%): Throat irritation (inhaler)Frequency not reported: Dry mouth, constipation, paralytic ileus, nausea, vomiting[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Leukopenia, neutropenia, agranulocytosis[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Serious skin reactions[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Tachycardia, hypotension, hypertension, orthostatic hypotension, syncope, ECG changes, flushed facies[Ref]
A few cases of ECG changes similar to those seen with phenothiazines have been reported.  It is not known if these were related to loxapine administration.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Urinary retention[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Ptosis, blurred vision[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Jaundice and/or hepatitisFrequency not reported: Hepatocellular injury[Ref]
Hepatocellular injury described as AST/ALT elevation has been reported in association with loxapine administration; rarely, jaundice and/or hepatitis has been reported as possibly related to treatment.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Dermatitis, facial edema, pruritus, rash, alopecia, seborrhea[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Galactorrhea, amenorrhea, gynecomastia, menstrual irregularity[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Loxapine Succinate (loxapine)." Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc, Morgantown, WV. 
2. "Product Information. Adasuve (loxapine)." Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, North Wales, PA. 
Not all side effects for Loxitane may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
inhalation powder

Difficulty with speaking or swallowing
lip smacking or puckering
loss of balance control
mask-like face
puffing of the cheeks
rapid or fine, worm-like movements of the tongue
restlessness or desire to keep moving
shuffling walk
slowed movements
stiffness of the arms and legs
trembling and shaking of the fingers and hands
uncontrolled chewing movements
uncontrolled movements of the arms or legs


Constipation (severe)
difficult urination
inability to move the eyes
muscle spasms, especially of the neck and back
skin rash
twisting movements of the body


Convulsions (seizures)
difficult or fast breathing
fast heartbeat or irregular pulse
fever (high)
high or low blood pressure
increased blinking or spasms of the eyelid
increased sweating
loss of bladder control
muscle stiffness (severe)
sore throat and fever
uncontrolled twisting movements of neck, trunk, arms, or legs
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual facial expressions or body positions
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusually pale skin
yellow eyes or skin


Dizziness (severe)
drowsiness (severe)
muscle trembling, jerking, stiffness, or uncontrolled movements (severe)
troubled breathing (severe)
unusual tiredness or weakness (severe)


Blurred vision
confusion
dizziness, lightheadedness, or fainting
drowsiness
dryness of the mouth


Constipation (mild)
decreased sexual ability
enlargement of breasts (males and females)
headache
increased sensitivity of the skin to sun
missing menstrual periods
nausea or vomiting
trouble with sleeping
unusual secretion of milk
weight gain

