Applies to mafenide topical: topical cream, topical powder for solution, topical powder for suspension
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by mafenide topical. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking mafenide topical:
Some of the side effects that can occur with mafenide topical may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to mafenide topical: compounding powder, topical cream, topical powder for reconstitution
In the clinical setting of severe burns, it is difficult to distinguish between an adverse reaction to this drug and burn sequelae.  In a clinical study in pediatric patients with acute burns requiring autografts who received this drug in addition to double antibiotic solution (DAB) wound therapy (neomycin sulfate 40 mg and polymyxin B 200,000 units/liter), the incidence of rash (4.6%) and itching (2.8%) in the group who received this drug was not different from that experienced with DAB dressings alone (5.7% and 1.3%, respectively).[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Pain, burning sensation, rash, pruritus, excoriation, bleeding[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Erythema, skin maceration, hives, blisters[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Tachypnea, hyperventilation, partial pressure of carbon dioxide decreased[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Metabolic acidosis, serum chloride increased[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Eosinophilia, bone marrow depression, fatal hemolytic anemia, disseminated intravascular coagulation[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Face edema, swelling, porphyria[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Sulfamylon cream (mafenide topical)." Dow Hickam Pharmaceuticals Inc, Sugar Land, TX. 
2. "Product Information. Sulfamylon (mafenide topical)." Bertek Pharmaceuticals Inc, Sugar Land, TX. 
Not all side effects for mafenide topical may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Itching
skin rash or redness
swelling of face or skin
wheezing or troubled breathing


Bleeding or oozing of skin
drowsiness
fast, deep breathing
nausea


Black, tarry stools
chest pain
chills
cough or hoarseness
dark urine
dizziness
fever
fluid-filled skin blisters
light-colored stools
lower back or side pain
numbness to feet, hands and around mouth
painful or difficult urination
rapid shallow breathing 
sensitivity to the sun
shortness of breath
skin thinness
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on lips or in mouth
swollen glands
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
yellow eyes or skin


Pain or burning feeling on treated area(s)


Blisters
flushing
raised red swellings on the skin, lips, tongue, or in the throat
redness of skin
skin rash
softening of the skin
swelling
unusually warm skin

