Generic Name: hydroxyprogesterone
Common side effects of Makena include: urticaria and swelling at injection site. Other side effects include: pruritus.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to hydroxyprogesterone: intramuscular oil, intramuscular solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by hydroxyprogesterone (the active ingredient contained in Makena). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking hydroxyprogesterone, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with hydroxyprogesterone may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to hydroxyprogesterone: compounding powder, intramuscular solution
Genitourinary side effects have included admission for preterm labor, preeclampsia or gestational hypertension, gestational diabetes, and oligohydramnios.  Postmarketing side effects include urinary tract infection, cervical incompetence, premature rupture of membranes, cervical dilation, and shortened cervix.[Ref]
Local side effects have included injection site pain, swelling, pruritus, and nodules.  Postmarketing side effects include local injection site reactions of erythema, urticaria, rash, irritation, hypersensitivity, and warmth.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea and diarrhea.  Postmarketing side effects include vomiting.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus and urticaria.  Postmarketing side effects include rash.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects include postmarketing reports of headache and dizziness.
Respiratory side effects include postmarketing reports of dyspnea and chest discomfort.
Other side effects include postmarketing reports of fatigue, fever, and hot flashes/flushes.
1. "Product Information. Makena (hydroxyprogesterone)." Ther-Rx Corporation, Bridgeton, MO. 
Not all side effects for Makena may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Pain, itching, or swelling at the injection site


Small lumps at the injection site


Anxiety
chest pain
cough
dizziness or lightheadedness
fainting
fast heartbeat
redness, tenderness, or warmth on the skin
sudden shortness of breath or troubled breathing


Hives or welts
itching
nausea
skin rash


 Diarrhea

