Generic Name: procarbazine
Applies to procarbazine: oral capsule
Along with their needed effects, medicines like procarbazine (the active ingredient contained in Matulane) can sometimes cause unwanted effects such as blood problems, loss of hair, high blood pressure reactions, and other side effects. These and others are described below. Also, because of the way these medicines act on the body, there is a chance that they might cause other unwanted effects that may not occur until months or years after the medicine is used. These delayed effects may include certain types of cancer, such as leukemia. Discuss these possible effects with your doctor.
Although not all of these side effects may occur, if they do occur they may need medical attention.
Stop taking procarbazine and get emergency help immediately if any of the following effects occur:
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking procarbazine:
If any of the following side effects occur while taking procarbazine, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some of the side effects that can occur with procarbazine may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:
This medicine may cause a temporary loss of hair in some people. After treatment with procarbazine has ended, normal hair growth should return.


Applies to procarbazine: oral capsule
Hematologic side effects are dose limiting and recovery may be delayed.  Leukopenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported to occur frequently.  Pancytopenia, eosinophilia, hemolytic anemia, and bleeding tendencies including petechiae, purpura, epistaxis, hematuria and hemoptysis have also been reported.[Ref]
Hematologic toxicity, common to many hydrazine derivatives, include hemolysis, eosinophilia, anisocytosis, poikilocytosis, lymphocytosis and the appearance of Heinz-Ehrlich inclusion bodies in erythrocytes.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea and vomiting are the most commonly reported.  Hepatic dysfunction, jaundice, stomatitis, hematemesis, melena, diarrhea, dysphagia, anorexia, abdominal pain, constipation, and dry mouth have also been reported.[Ref]
Most of the nausea and vomiting occur with initial drug administration.  In one study, 15 of 43 patients suffered severe gastrointestinal toxicity.[Ref]
In one study, peripheral neuropathy with paresthesia of the extremities and depressed deep tendon reflexes were reported to occur in 17% of patients.  These effects, as well as ataxia, have been known to be reversible in some patients even as administration of the drug was continued.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects including leukoencephalopathy, coma, convulsions, neuropathy, ataxia, paresthesia, nystagmus, diminished reflexes, falling, foot drop, headache, dizziness, chills, weakness, fatigue, hallucinations and unsteadiness have been reported.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects including hypotension, tachycardia, and syncope have been reported.[Ref]
Ocular side effects including retinal hemorrhage, papilledema, photophobia, diplopia and inability to focus have been reported.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects including pneumonitis, pleural effusion, and cough have been reported.[Ref]
If a rash develops that is self limiting, it may be prevented during subsequent courses of therapy by administration of steroids.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects including herpes, dermatitis, pruritus, alopecia, hyperpigmentation, rash, urticaria, and flushing have been reported.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have been reported.[Ref]
In one study, 12 of 68 patients receiving procarbazine experienced a hypersensitivity reaction.  Other studies have reported less frequent occurrences.  One study noted 2 rashes out of 24 patients and another study noted 1 rash and 1 case of urticaria out of 129 patients.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects including hematuria, urinary frequency, and nocturia have been reported.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects including pain (myalgia and arthralgia) and tremors have been reported.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects including hallucinations, depression, apprehension, agitation, psychosis, nervousness, confusion, mania and nightmares have been reported.[Ref]
Endocrine side effects including gynecomastia in prepuberal and early puberal boys have been reported.[Ref]
Oncologic side effects with instances of a secondary nonlymphoid malignancy, including lung cancer, acute myelocytic leukemia, and malignant myelosclerosis have been reported in patients with Hodgkin's disease treated with procarbazine (the active ingredient contained in Matulane) in combination with other chemotherapy and/or radiation.[Ref]
The risks of secondary lung cancer from treatment appear to be multiplied by tobacco use.The carcinogenicity of procarbazine in mice, rats, and monkeys has been reported in a considerable number of studies.[Ref]
Other side effects including azoospermia, intercurrent infections, hearing loss, pyrexia, diaphoresis, lethargy, weakness, fatigue, edema, chills, insomnia, slurred speech, hoarseness, hyperpyrexia, and drowsiness have been reported.[Ref]
1. Hadjiyanni M, Valianatou K, Tsilianos M, Seitanidis B "Prolonged thrombocytopenia after procarbazine "overdose"." Eur J Cancer 28A (1992): 1299
2. DeConti RC "Procarbazine in the management of late Hodgkin's disease." JAMA 215 (1971): 927-30
3. "Product Information. Matulane (procarbazine)." Roche Laboratories, Nutley, NJ. 
4. Spivack SD "Drugs 5 years later: procarbazine." Ann Intern Med 81 (1974): 795-800
5. Carpenter JT Jr, Raney M, Logan T "Phase II evaluation of procarbazine in metastatic breast cancer: a Southeastern Cancer Study Group Trial." Cancer Treat Rep 70 (1986): 679-80
6. Ecker MD, Jay B, Keohane MF "Procarbazine lung." AJR Am J Roentgenol 131 (1978): 527-8
7. Andersen E, Videbaek A "Procarbazine-induced skin reactions in Hodgkin's disease and other malignant lymphomas." Scand J Haematol 24 (1980): 149-51
8. Carney MW, Ravindran A, Lewis DS "Manic psychosis associated with procarbazine." Br Med J (Clin Res Ed) 284 (1982): 82-3
9. Horvath W, Black C, Keller J, Nemire R, Pipoly G, Krupp K "MOOD DISORDERS FROM PROCARBAZINE (PZ) IN 4 MOPP-TREATED HODGKIN'S DISEASE (HD) PATIENTS (PTS) (MEETING ABSTRACT)." Proc Annu Meet Am Soc Clin Oncol 11 (1992): a2981992
10. Lee IP, Dixon RL "Mutagenicity, carcinogenicity and teratogenicity of procarbazine." Mutat Res 55 (1978): 1-14
11. Akyol H, Sarialioglu F, Buyukpamukcu M, Akyuz C "Cytotoxic drug-induced fever: a report on procarbazine-induced hyperpyrexia." Med Pediatr Oncol 18 (1990): 173-5
Not all side effects for Matulane may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Chest pain (severe)
enlarged pupils of eyes
fast or slow heartbeat
 headache (severe)
increased sensitivity of eyes to light
increased sweating (possibly with fever or cold, clammy skin)
stiff or sore neck


Black, tarry stools
blood in urine or stools
bloody vomit
 cough or hoarseness
fever or chills
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
pinpoint red spots on skin
unusual bleeding or bruising


Confusion
convulsions (seizures)
cough
hallucinations (seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there)
missing menstrual periods
shortness of breath
 thickening of bronchial secretions
tiredness or weakness (continuing)


Diarrhea
sores in mouth and on lips 
tingling or numbness of fingers or toes
unsteadiness or awkwardness
yellow eyes or skin


Fainting
skin rash, hives, or itching 
wheezing


Drowsiness
muscle or joint pain
muscle twitching
nausea and vomiting 
nervousness
nightmares 
trouble in sleeping
 unusual tiredness or weakness


Constipation
darkening of skin
difficulty in swallowing
dizziness or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position
dry mouth
feeling of warmth and redness in face
headache
loss of appetite
mental depression

