Generic Name: pirbuterol
Applies to pirbuterol: inhalation aerosol powder
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by pirbuterol (the active ingredient contained in Maxair). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking pirbuterol:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking pirbuterol, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with pirbuterol may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to pirbuterol: inhalation aerosol
Cardiovascular side effects have included palpitations and peripheral vasodilation, commonly resulting in reflex tachycardia.  Blood pressure may increase or decrease.  Higher doses may rarely aggravate angina, myocardial ischemia, or cause atrial or ventricular arrhythmias.[Ref]
Although most studies have not revealed a significant effect of pirbuterol on blood pressure or heart rate, anecdotally significant increases have been noted.  Aggravation of angina may be due to tachycardia produced by pirbuterol.  Supraventricular premature beats and ventricular tachycardia have also been reported.  Higher doses of pirbuterol should be used with caution in patients with cardiac disease, arrhythmias, or hypertension.  All of these effects are dose-related and lower doses may be tolerated.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included tremors, especially at higher doses.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, dry mouth, and diarrhea.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects have included hypokalemia and, less commonly, hyperglycemia.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included nervousness, dizziness, insomnia, and headache.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included cough.  Rare instances of paradoxical bronchoconstriction have been associated with the use of pirbuterol (the active ingredient contained in Maxair) [Ref]
1. "Product Information. Maxair (pirbuterol)." 3M Pharmaceuticals, St. Paul, MN. 
2. Chodosh S, Crooks LA, Tuck J "Comparative effects of pirbuterol acetate, metaproterenol, and placebo aerosols on pulmonary function and incidence of cardiac ectopy." J Asthma 26 (1989): 309-15
3. Richards DM, Brogden RN "Pirbuterol. A preliminary review of its pharmacological properties and therapeutic efficacy in reversible bronchospastic disease." Drugs 30 (1985): 6-21
4. Beumer HM "Pirbuterol versus orciprenaline aerosols in the treatment of bronchial asthma." Int J Clin Pharmacol Ther Toxicol 21 (1983): 147-66
5. Beumer HM "Long-term treatment of bronchial asthma with pirbuterol aerosol." Int J Clin Pharmacol Ther Toxicol 21 (1983): 172-5
6. Littner MR, Tashkin DP, Calvarese B, Bautista M "Acute bronchial and cardiovascular effects of increasing doses of pirbuterol acetate aerosol in asthma." Ann Allergy 48 (1982): 14-20
7. Tinkelman DG, Brandon ML, Grieco M, Hudson L, Rosenthal RR, Spector SL, Tashkin D, Votteri B "Comparison of safety and efficacy of inhaled pirbuterol with metaproterenol." Ann Allergy 64 (1990): 202-6
8. Windom H, Grainger J, Burgess C, Crane J, Pearce N, Beasley R "A comparison of the haemodynamic and hypokalaemic effects of inhaled pirbuterol and salbutamol." N Z Med J 103 (1990): 259-61
Not all side effects for Maxair may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet


Fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse


Blurred vision
bruising
chest pain
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly
fainting
feeling of warmth
numbness in the arms or legs
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
sweating
swelling
unusual tiredness or weakness


Arm, back, or jaw pain
chest tightness or heaviness
confusion
convulsions
decreased urine
dry mouth
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
increased thirst
loss of appetite
mood changes
muscle pain or cramps
nausea or vomiting
nervousness
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
pounding in the ears
shortness of breath
sleeplessness
slow or fast heartbeat
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep


Cough
dizziness


Abdominal or stomach cramps
anxiety
bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
change in taste
depression
hair loss
increase in body movements
itching skin
redness, swelling, or soreness of the tongue
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
thinning of the hair
weakness
weight gain
weight loss

