Generic Name: dexamethasone ophthalmic
Applies to dexamethasone ophthalmic: intraocular implant
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by dexamethasone ophthalmic (the active ingredient contained in Maxidex). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking dexamethasone ophthalmic, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:


Applies to dexamethasone ophthalmic: intraocular implant, ophthalmic ointment, ophthalmic solution, ophthalmic suspension
The most commonly reported side effects were cataract, elevation of intraocular pressure, and conjunctival hemorrhage.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Cataract (up to 68%), elevation of intraocular pressure (28%), conjunctival hemorrhage (22%)Common (1% to 10%): Eye pain, conjunctival hyperemia, ocular hypertension, reduced visual acuity, conjunctivitis, vitreous floaters, conjunctival edema, dry eye, vitreous detachment, vitreous opacities, retinal aneurysm, foreign body sensation, corneal erosion, keratitis, anterior chamber inflammation, retinal tear, eyelid ptosis, vitreous detachment, keratoconjunctivitis sicca, corneal staining, photophobia, blurred vision, eye pruritus, increased lacrimation Rare (less than 0.1%): Burning, stingingFrequency not reported: Glaucoma with optic nerve damage, visual acuity and visual field defects, subcapsular cataract formation, secondary ocular infection and perforation of the globePostmarketing experience: Complication of device insertion (implant misplacement), device dislocation with or without corneal edema, endophthalmitis, hypotony of the eye (associated with vitreous leakage due to injection), retinal detachment[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Hypertension (13%)[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): HeadacheUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Dysgeusia, migraineFrequency not reported: Dizziness[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Bronchitis[Ref]
1. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
3. "Product Information. Ozurdex (dexamethasone ophthalmic)." Allergan Inc, Irvine, CA. 
4. "Product Information. Decadron Ocumeter (dexamethasone ophthalmic)." Merck & Co, Inc, West Point, PA. 
Not all side effects for Maxidex may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bloody eye
blurred vision
change in vision
eye pain
loss of vision
redness of the white part of the eye or inside of the eyelid


Blindness
decreased vision
gradual loss of vision
headache
nausea
seeing a veil or curtain across part of your vision
seeing flashes or sparks of light
seeing floating spots before the eyes
vomiting

