Generic Name: dexamethasone / neomycin / polymyxin b ophthalmic
Applies to dexamethasone / neomycin / polymyxin b ophthalmic: eye drops, eye ointment
 Check with your doctor if any of these most COMMON side effects persist or become bothersome:
Burning or stinging when you first put the medicine in your eye; dry, flaky skin; irritation; itching; redness; swelling.
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; itching; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, or tongue); changes in vision; continued burning or itching; eye pain.


Applies to dexamethasone / neomycin / polymyxin b ophthalmic: ophthalmic ointment, ophthalmic suspension
Ocular side effects associated with the corticosteroid component have included elevated intraocular pressure with possible development of glaucoma, optic nerve damage, posterior subcapsular cataract formation and delayed wound healing.  In addition, perforation of the cornea and sclera have occurred when administering topical steroids to patients with diseases that cause thinning of the cornea or sclera.Corticosteroid containing preparations have also been reported to cause acute anterior uveitis, perforation of the globe, keratitis, conjunctivitis, corneal ulcers, mydriasis, conjunctival hyperemia, loss of accommodation, and ptosis.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity reactions have included allergic sensitization.[Ref]
Local reactions have included stinging or burning upon application.[Ref]
The development of a secondary infection has been reported in patients treated with antimicrobial and corticosteroid combinations.  Fungal and viral infections of the cornea can develop with long-term application of corticosteroids.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Maxitrol (dexamethasone/neomycin/polymyxin B ophthalmic)." Alcon Laboratories Inc, Fort Worth, TX. 
Not all side effects for Maxitrol may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
