Applies to mebendazole: oral suspension, oral tablet chewable
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by mebendazole. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking mebendazole:
Some of the side effects that can occur with mebendazole may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to mebendazole: compounding powder, oral tablet chewable
Since mebendazole is not well absorbed, few systemic side effects are reported.  Side effects may be more likely and more severe in patients with underlying liver disease.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal pain, especially when the intestinal parasite burden is great.[Ref]
Increased liver function tests have been associated with mebendazole in patients with hepatic hydatid cysts.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included transient changes in liver function tests and granulomatous hepatitis.  These side effects have been reported when mebendazole was taken for prolonged periods and at dosages substantially above those recommended.[Ref]
Bone marrow biopsy results during mebendazole-associated leukopenia or pancytopenia have revealed hypocellularity.  These effects reverse upon drug discontinuation.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects are unusual and reversible, but may be severe.  Profound leukopenia, often accompanied by anemia and thrombocytopenia, has been reported.  Pancytopenia and neutropenia have also been reported.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included rare reports of alopecia and angioedema.  Rash, pruritus, urticaria, and flushing have also been reported.[Ref]
No evidence of hypersensitivity (eosinophilia, rash, leukocytosis) accompanied the rare reports of drug fever.  The fever may have been idiosyncratic or evidence of a reaction to drug-induced tissue necrosis in hydatid cysts.[Ref]
Other side effects have included chills and drug fever.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have been reported rarely.  These have included weakness, drowsiness, and seizures.[Ref]
1. Barrett-Connor E "Drugs for the treatment of parasitic infection." Med Clin North Am 66 (1982): 245-55
2. Bekhti A, Pirotte J "Hepatotoxicity of mebendazole: relationship with serum concentrations of the drug." Gastroenterol Clin Biol 11 (1987): 701-3
3. Witassek F, Bircher "Chemotherapy of larval echinococcosis with mebendazole: microsomal liver function and cholestasis as determinants of plasma drug level." Eur J Clin Pharmacol 25 (1983): 85-90
4. Kammerer WS, Schantz PM "Long term follow-up of human hydatid disease (echinococcus granulosus) treated with a high-dose mebendazole regimen." Am J Trop Med Hyg 33 (1984): 132-7
5. Miskovitz PF, Javitt NB "Leukopenia associated with mebendazole therapy of hydatid disease." Am J Trop Med Hyg 29 (1980): 1356-8
6. Colle I, Naegels S, Hoorens A, Hautekeete M "Granulomatous hepatitis due to mebendazole." J Clin Gastroenterol 28 (1999): 44-5
7. Levin MH, Weinstein RA, Axelrod JL, Schantz PM "Severe, reversible neutropenia during high-dose mebendazole therapy for echinococcosis." JAMA 249 (1983): 2929-31
8. Braithwaite PA, Thomas RJ, Thompson RC "Hydatid disease, the alveolar variety in australia: a case report with comment on the toxicity of mebendazole." Aust N Z J Surg 55 (1985): 519-23
9. Fernandez-Banares F, Gonzalez-Huix F, Xiol X, et al "Marrow aplasia during high dose mebendazole treatment." Am J Trop Med Hyg 35 (1986): 350-1
10. Murray-Lyon IM, Reynolds KW "Complication of mebendazole treatment for hydatid disease." Br Med J 2 (1979): 1111-2
11. "Multum Information Services, Inc. Expert Review Panel"  
Not all side effects for mebendazole may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Black, tarry stools
chills
convulsions
cough or hoarseness
dark urine
fever with or without chills
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
hives or welts, itching, or skin rash
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
light-colored stools
lower back or side pain
nausea and vomiting
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
redness of the skin
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
yellow eyes and skin


Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
diarrhea
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
joint or muscle pain
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
tightness in the chest


Abdominal or stomach pain or upset


Bloated
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
full feeling
hair loss or thinning of the hair
loss of appetite
passing gas
weight loss

