Generic Name: haemophilus b conjugate (prp-t) vaccine / meningococcal conjugate vaccine
Applies to haemophilus b conjugate (prp-t) vaccine / meningococcal conjugate vaccine: intramuscular powder for solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by haemophilus b conjugate (prp-t) vaccine / meningococcal conjugate vaccine. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking haemophilus b conjugate (prp-t) vaccine / meningococcal conjugate vaccine, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with haemophilus b conjugate (prp-t) vaccine / meningococcal conjugate vaccine may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to haemophilus b conjugate (prp-t) vaccine / meningococcal conjugate vaccine: intramuscular powder for injection
Dermatologic side effects have included postmarketing reports of rash and urticaria.[Ref]
General side effects have included loss of appetite (up to 33.8%) and fever (up to 25.9%).[Ref]
Immunologic side effects have included postmarketing reports of allergic reactions (including anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions) and angioedema.[Ref]
Local side effects have included pain (up to 46.2%), redness (up to 35.5%), and swelling (up to 25.4%).  Postmarketing reports have included extensive swelling of the vaccinated limb and injection site induration.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included irritability (up to 70.8%) and drowsiness (up to 62.8%).  Postmarketing reports have included convulsions (with or without fever), hypotonic-hyporesponsive episode, somnolence, and syncope or vasovagal responses to injection.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included postmarketing reports of apnea.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. MenHibrix (haemophilus b-meningococcal conj vaccine)." GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC. 
Not all side effects for MenHibrix may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Fever


Bluish lips
cough
difficulty with swallowing
fainting
fast heartbeat
hives
itching
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
shortness of breath
skin rash
unusual tiredness or weakness


Crying
drowsiness
irritability
loss of appetite
pain, redness, or swelling at the injection site


Hard lump at the injection site
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
welts

