Applies to metaxalone: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by metaxalone. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking metaxalone:
Some of the side effects that can occur with metaxalone may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to metaxalone: oral tablet
Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, vomiting, gastrointestinal upset[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Drowsiness, dizziness, headache[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Leukopenia, hemolytic anemia[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Anaphylactoid reaction, hypersensitivity reaction, rash (with or without pruritus)[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Jaundice[Ref]
Frequency not reported: False-positive Benedict's tests (due to an unknown reducing substance)[Ref]
A glucose-specific test may be used to differentiate findings.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Nervousness, irritability[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Skelaxin (metaxalone)." Carnrick Laboratories Inc, Cedar Knolls, NJ. 
Not all side effects for metaxalone may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Abdominal or stomach pain
back or leg pains
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
chest pain
chills
cough
dark urine
difficulty in breathing or swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
fever
general body swelling
headache
itching
loss of appetite
nausea or vomiting
nosebleeds
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
rash
shortness of breath
skin itching, rash, or redness
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swelling of the face, throat, or tongue
swollen glands
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood
yellowing of the eyes or skin


Hives
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
tightness in the chest
wheezing


Diarrhea
drowsiness
irritability
stomach cramps
vomiting

