Applies to methimazole: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by methimazole. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking methimazole:
Some of the side effects that can occur with methimazole may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to methimazole: compounding powder, oral tablet
The onset of aplastic anemia (pancytopenia) or agranulocytosis may occur in hours to days.  Most cases of agranulocytosis occur within the first 90 days of treatment, but this complication can occur even a year or more after starting therapy.  Studies have suggested that the risk of agranulocytosis is greater in older patients and that they have a higher rate of death.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included inhibition of myelopoiesis (agranulocytosis (0.35%), granulocytopenia, and thrombocytopenia), aplastic anemia, and hypoprothrombinemia.  Approximately 10% of patients with untreated hyperthyroidism have experienced leukopenia, often with relative granulopenia.[Ref]
Immunologic side effects have included insulin autoimmune syndrome and lupus-like syndrome.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included hepatitis and jaundice (which may persist for several weeks following discontinuation of the drug).[Ref]
Renal side effects have rarely included nephritis.[Ref]
A 5-year-old female experienced aplasia cutis congenita coincident with in utero exposure to methimazole.  She presented with hairless scars on her scalp.  At birth the lesions were friable and bled easily, however, over time they became scar-like and thicker.  At the time of conception, her mother was receiving therapy for Graves' disease with methimazole 20 mg daily.  Aplasia cutis congenita has been reported as a possible teratogenic effect of methimazole therapy in multiple case reports.  However, the causal relationship between the therapy and the skin defect is controversial, and anomalies related to methimazole have low birth prevalence.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects including urticaria (5%), macular rash (5%), rash, pruritus, abnormal loss of hair, and skin pigmentation have been reported.  Aplasia cutis congenita has also been reported.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgia (5%) and myalgia.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included paresthesia, headache, drowsiness, neuritis, and vertigo.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal (GI) side effects have included GI upset (5%), nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, and taste disturbances.  Pancreatitis has been reported very rarely.[Ref]
A 67-year-old female with a history of Graves' disease and mild bilateral ophthalmopathy experienced carotid cavernous fistula coincident with methimazole therapy.  She was treated with radioiodine following 10-years of therapy with methimazole.  Evaluation of the patient with sensitive techniques lead to the diagnosis of carotid cavernous fistula.  This is the first report of the simultaneous occurrence of Graves' ophthalmopathy and carotid cavernous fistula.[Ref]
Ocular side effects including at least one case of carotid cavernous fistula have been reported.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects including vasculitis have been reported.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects including rare reports of hypoglycemia have been reported.[Ref]
Other side effects have included edema, periarteritis, sialadenopathy, lymphadenopathy, and fever.  Abnormal sense of taste or smell has also been reported rarely.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Tapazole (methimazole)." Jones Medical-Western Research, St. Louis, MO. 
2. Cooper DS "Antithyroid drugs." N Engl J Med 352 (2005): 905-17
3. Mikhail NE "Methimazole-induced cholestatic jaundice." South Med J 97 (2004): 178-82
4. Baid SK,  Merke DP "Aplasia cutis congenita following in utero methimazole exposure." J Pediatr Endocrinol Metab 20 (2007): 585-6
5. Benson GD "Acetaminophen in chronic liver disease." Clin Pharmacol Ther 33 (1983): 95-101
Not all side effects for methimazole may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Backache
black, tarry stools
chest pain
chills
cough
fever
increase or decrease in urination
painful or difficult urination
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swelling of the feet or lower legs
swollen glands
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness


Abdominal or stomach pain
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stool
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
dark urine
difficulty with moving
general feeling of discomfort or weakness
headache
joint pain
light-colored stools
loss of appetite and weight
lower back or side pain
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pain or stiffness
nausea and vomiting
numbness or tingling of the hands, feet, or face
pinpoint red spots on the skin
sore muscles
swollen joints
swollen salivary glands
swollen, painful, or tender lymph glands in the neck, armpit, or groin
tightness in the chest
wheezing
yellow eyes or skin


Abnormal loss of hair
dizziness or lightheadedness
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
heartburn
hives or welts
itching
loss of taste
pain or discomfort in the chest, upper stomach, or throat
red skin
skin rash
sleepiness
vomiting

