Applies to methocarbamol: oral tablet
Other dosage forms:
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by methocarbamol. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking methocarbamol:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking methocarbamol, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with methocarbamol may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to methocarbamol: injectable solution, oral tablet
Cardiovascular side effects have included syncope, hypotension, and bradycardia.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included dizziness, lightheadedness, vertigo, headache, drowsiness, fainting, and mild muscular incoordination.  Convulsions have been reported with intravenous administration, especially in patients with a history of epilepsy.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included urticaria, pruritus, rash, sloughing, thrombophlebitis, and pain at the injection site.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have included blurred vision, conjunctivitis, nystagmus, and diplopia.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included nasal congestion, bronchospasm, and anaphylaxis.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included gastrointestinal upset, anorexia, and adynamic ileus.[Ref]
Other side effects have included metallic taste and fever.Effects on lab tests have included a possible color interference in certain screening tests for 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and vanillylmandelic acid (VMA).[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included hemolysis, particularly with intravenous injection.[Ref]
Methocarbamol vials for injection contain polyethylene glycol 300 (PEG 300).  Larger amounts of PEG 300 can increase preexisting renal acidosis and urea retention in patients with renal insufficiency.[Ref]
Renal side effects including urine discoloration (black, blue, brown, or green) have been reported after oral administration in some patients.[Ref]
General side effects have included angioneurotic edema.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Robaxin Injectable (methocarbamol)." Whitehall-Robbins, Madison, NJ. 
2. "Multum Information Services, Inc. Expert Review Panel"  
3. CAMPBELL DJ, SHERBANIUK R, RIGBY J "FALSE POSITIVE REACTION DUE TO METHOCARBAMOL IN THE SCREENING TEST FOR VANILMANDELIC ACID (VMA)." CLIN CHEM 10 (1964): 447-50
Not all side effects for methocarbamol may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.
injection solution

Abdominal or stomach pain
black, tarry stools
changes in skin color
chest pain or discomfort
chills
clay-colored stools
cough
dark urine
diarrhea
difficulty swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
feeling of warmth
fever
headache
hives
itching
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
lightheadedness, dizziness, or fainting
loss of appetite
loss of bladder control
loss of consciousness
loss of memory
nausea
numbness or tingling of face, hands, or feet
pain, tenderness, or swelling of foot or leg
painful or difficult urination
problems with memory
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
redness and soreness of eyes
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest 
relaxed and calm
shortness of breath
skin rash
sleepiness
slow or irregular heartbeat
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on lips or in mouth
swollen glands
tightness in chest
total body jerking
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood
wheezing
yellow eyes or skin


Shaking or jerking of one area or side of the body
sweating


Acid or sour stomach
belching
double vision
drowsiness
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
heartburn
indigestion
mood or mental changes
seeing double
sensation of spinning
sleeplessness
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep
uncontrolled eye movements

