Applies to metolazone: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by metolazone. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking metolazone:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking metolazone, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with metolazone may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to metolazone: oral tablet
A rare case of hyperosmolar nonketotic hyperglycemia is associated with metolazone.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects are the most common and profound.  The rapid onset of hyponatremia or hypokalemia is often sudden and may be profound, particularly if metolazone is given with a loop diuretic.  Hypokalemia may be important in patients with underlying cardiac arrhythmias.  Metolazone may increase serum calcium and uric acid levels and lower serum magnesium and phosphate levels.  Glucose intolerance is reported in rare cases.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects are uncommon.  Postural hypotension is reported in less than 5% of patients.  Rare cases of venous thrombosis are reported, thought to be due to metolazone-induced hypovolemia and increased serum concentrations of clotting factors.  Rare cardiovascular side effects also include palpitations, hypovolemia, and chest pain.[Ref]
Renal insufficiency, manifest as a rise in serum creatinine and BUN, may occur, although, in most cases, creatinine clearance increases as a result of metolazone therapy.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects include headache, dizziness, and fatigue.  Two cases of syncope and seizures are reported.  Metolazone-induced hypovolemia and electrolyte changes may induce hepatic encephalopathy in some patients.[Ref]
It is not clear whether the patients who developed syncope and seizure activity were hypotensive or hypovolemic at the time of the seizures or that metolazone can definitively be implicated.  In one case the patient was also taking theophylline and had hypomagnesemia, which may be a complication of metolazone therapy.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity reactions include rare case reports of necrotizing vasculitis, angiitis, and pruritic rashes.[Ref]
A case of cutaneous hypersensitivity angiitis has been reported in a patient who had previously tolerated thiazide diuretics, indicating that, despite the chemical similarity between thiazides and metolazone, there is not necessarily cross-reactivity.[Ref]
Hematologic abnormalities are rare.  Cases of reversible hypoplastic anemia, aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, and mild leukopenia are reported.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects are rare, and include a case of acute pancreatitis.  Nausea, vomiting, anorexia, and abdominal bloating are also rare.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects include a rare case of cholestatic jaundice.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal cramps are associated with metolazone therapy, as with other diuretics, and may be associated with electrolyte disorders and rapid intravascular volume shifts.[Ref]
1. Bennett WM, Porter GA "Efficacy and safety of metolazone in renal failure and the nephrotic syndrome." J Clin Pharmacol 13 (1973): 357-64
2. "Product Information. Zaroxolyn (metolazone)." Rhone-Poulenc Rorer, Collegeville, PA. 
3. Black W, Shiner P, Roman J "Severe electrolyte disturbances associated with metolazone and furosemide." South Med J 71 (1978): 381
4. Fitzgerald M, Brennan N "Muscle cramps, collapse, and seizures in two patients taking metolazone." Br Med J 1 (1976): 1381-2
5. Rowe P, Mather H "Hyperosmolar non-ketotic diabetes mellitus associated with metolazone." Br Med J 291 (1985): 25-6
6. Craswell PW, Ezzat E, Kopstein J, Varghese Z, Moorhead JF "Use of metolazone, a new diuretic, in patients with renal disease." Nephron 12 (1974): 63-73
7. Anderson PE, Ellis GG, Austin SM "Case report: metolazone-associated hypercalcemia and acute pancreatitis." Am J Med Sci 302 (1991): 235-7
8. Stern A "Metolazone, a diuretic agent." Am Heart J 91 (1976): 262-3
9. Pickkers P, Schachter M, Hughes AD, Feher MD, Sever PS "Thiazide-induced hyperglycaemia: a role for calcium-activated potassium channels?" Diabetologia 39 (1996): 861-4
10. Nichols T "Initial experience with metolazone." Minn Med 60 (1977): 549-53
11. Cox N, Hodkin P "Vasculitis due to metolazone." Postgrad Med J 67 (1991): 860
12. Weinrauch L, Belok S, Gauvin G, D'Elia J "Palpable acute necrotizing arteritis secondary to metolazone." Cutis 30 (1982): 83-4
13. Suh K "Hypoplastic anemia associated with metolazone." JAMA 242 (1979): 139-40
14. Donovan K "Neutropenia and metolazone." Br Med J 299 (1989): 981
Not all side effects for metolazone may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blistering, peeling, or loosening of skin
bloating
blood in urine or stools
blurred vision
bone pain
chest pain
chills
clay-colored stools
cold sweats
coma
confusion
constipation
convulsions
cough
dark urine
decreased urine
diarrhea
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from lying or sitting position
drowsiness
dry mouth
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
fever
flushed, dry skin
fruit-like breath odor
general tiredness and weakness
headache
incoherent speech
increased hunger
increased thirst
increased urination
indigestion
irritability
itching
joint or muscle pain
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
metallic taste
mood changes
muscle pain or cramps
nausea and vomiting
numbness or tingling in hands, feet, or lips
pain in lower legs
painful or difficult urination
pinpoint red spots on skin
rash
red irritated eyes
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
redness or swelling of lower leg
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in mouth or on lips
sugar in the urine
sweating
swelling of face, ankles, or hands
swollen or painful glands
tightness in chest
trembling
troubled breathing
unexplained weight loss
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
upper right abdominal pain
vomiting of blood
weak pulse
wheezing
yellow eyes and skin


Fainting
irregular, fast or slow, or shallow breathing
pale or blue lips, fingernails, or skin
unusual drowsiness, dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness
weakness and heaviness of legs


Blue-green to black skin discoloration
burning, tingling, numbness, or pain in the hands, arms, feet, or legs
cracked, dry, or scaly skin
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
hives or welts
inability to have or keep an erection
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
pain, redness, or sloughing of skin at place of injection
restlessness
sensation of pins and needles
sensation of spinning
stabbing pain

