Common side effects of Mircera include: death. Other side effects include: upper respiratory tract infection.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking epoetin beta-methoxy polyethylene glycol, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Cardiovascular side effects including hypertension (13%) and hypotension (5% ) have been reported.
Gastrointestinal side effects including diarrhea (11%), vomiting (6%), and constipation (5%) have been reported.
In controlled trials, the rates of serious adverse reactions did not significantly differ between patients receiving epoetin beta-methoxy polyethylene glycol and another erythropoiesis-stimulating agent (ESA) (38% vs. 42%) except for the occurrence of serious gastrointestinal hemorrhage (1.2% vs. 0.2%).
Respiratory side effects including nasopharyngitis (11%), upper respiratory tract infection (9% ), and cough (6%) have been reported.
Genitourinary side effects including urinary tract infection (5%) have been reported.
Nervous system side effects including headache (9%) have been reported.
Musculoskeletal side effects including muscle spasms (8%), back pain (6%), and pain in extremity (5%) have been reported.
Other side effects including procedural hypotension (8%), fluid overload (7%), arteriovenous fistula thrombosis (5%), and arteriovenous fistula site complication 5% have been reported.
Compared to SC administration, the IV route of administration may lessen the risk for development of antibodies to epoetin beta-methoxy polyethylene glycol (the active ingredient contained in Mircera)   In 1789 patients treated with epoetin beta-methoxy polyethylene glycol in clinical studies, antibody testing using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was conducted at baseline and during treatment.  Antibody development was not detected in any of the patients.The incidence of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay.  Additionally, the observed incidence of antibody (including neutralizing antibody) positivity in an assay may be influenced by several factors including assay methodology, sample handling, timing of sample collection, concomitant medications, and underlying disease.  For these reasons, comparison of the incidence of antibodies to epoetin beta-methoxy polyethylene glycol with the incidence of antibodies to other ESAs may be misleading.
Immunologic side effects including neutralizing antibodies to erythropoietin, in association with pure red cell aplasia (PRCA) or severe anemia (with or without other cytopenias), have been reported in patients receiving other erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) during postmarketing experience.
Hypersensitivity side effects including tachycardia, pruritus, and rash have been reported.
Blurred vision
body aches or pain
chills
confusion
cough
difficulty with breathing
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
ear congestion
fever
headache
loss of voice
nasal congestion
nervousness
pounding in the ears
runny nose
slow or fast heartbeat
sneezing
sore throat
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
difficult, burning, or painful urination
frequent urge to urinate
lower back or side pain
pains in the chest, groin, or legs, especially calves of the legs
severe headaches of sudden onset
sudden loss of coordination
sudden onset of shortness of breath for no apparent reason
sudden onset of slurred speech
sudden vision changes
Confusion
decreased urine output
difficulty with speaking
difficulty with swallowing
dilated neck veins
double vision
extreme fatigue
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
hives, itching, or skin rash
inability to move the arms, legs, or facial muscles
inability to speak
irregular breathing
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
redness of the skin
seizures
severe, sudden headache
slow or slurred speech
sudden, severe weakness or numbness in the arm or leg
sudden, unexplained shortness of breath
sweating
swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or lower legs
tightness in the chest
vision changes
vomiting
weight gain
welts
Back pain
diarrhea
muscle spasms
Difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)