Generic Name: mitomycin ophthalmic
Applies to mitomycin ophthalmic: topical application pad, topical application powder for solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by mitomycin ophthalmic (the active ingredient contained in Mitosol). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking mitomycin ophthalmic, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with mitomycin ophthalmic may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to mitomycin ophthalmic: ophthalmic kit
The most commonly reported side effects include blebitis, corneal changes, and other localized reactions.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Blebitis, bleb ulceration, chronic bleb leak, encapsulated/cystic bleb, bleb-related infection, conjunctival necrosis, thin-walled bleb, Descemet's detachment, induced astigmatism, corneal epithelial damage, superficial punctate keratitis, endophthalmitis, hypotony, choroidal reaction, choroidal detachment, choroidal reactions, choroidal detachment, choroidal effusion, serious choroidal detachment, suprachoroidal hemorrhage, hypotony maculopathy, presence of supraciliochoroidal effusion, iritis, cataract development, capsular constriction, posterior synechiae, retinal pigment epithelial tear, serous/rhegatogenous retinal detachment, hyphema, vitreal/retinal/subconjunctival/disk hemorrhage, macular edema, sclera thinning/ulceration, intraocular lens capture, disk swelling, malignant glaucoma, lacrimal drainage system obstruction, ciliary block, corneal vascularization, decreased visual acuity, cystic conjunctival degeneration, upper eyelid retraction, dislocated implants, severe loss of vision, hemiretinal/central retinal vein occlusion[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Wound dehiscence/scleral wound dehiscence[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Blood clot[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Mitosol (mitoMYcin ophthalmic)." Mobius Therapeutics, St. Loius, MO. 
Not all side effects for Mitosol may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Blindness
blurred vision or other change in vision
decreased vision
dislocated eye implants
eye pain
eye redness
flashes of light or floaters in vision
headache
irritation or inflammation of the eye
seeing flashes or sparks of light
seeing floating spots before the eyes, or a veil or curtain appearing across part of vision
tearing of the eyes


Opening of the surgical wound
raising of the upper eyelid
sensitivity of the eyes to light
throbbing pain

