Generic Name: antihemophilic factor
Applies to antihemophilic factor: intravenous powder for solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by antihemophilic factor (the active ingredient contained in Monarc-M). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking antihemophilic factor:
Some of the side effects that can occur with antihemophilic factor may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to antihemophilic factor: intravenous kit, intravenous powder for injection
Nervous system side effects have included headache, dizziness, somnolence, and asthenia.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included dyspnea and rhinitis.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgia.[Ref]
Local side effects have included injection site pain.[Ref]
General side effects have included pyrexia and chills.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, diarrhea, and vomiting.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have include pruritus, rash, and urticaria.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included hemorrhage, hypotension, and vasodilatation.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Koate-HP (antihemophilic factor)." Bayer, West Haven, CT. 
2. "Product Information. Helixate FS (antihemophilic factor)." CSL Behring, King of Prussia, PA. 
3. "Product Information. Humate-P (antihemophilic factor-von Willebrand factor)." CSL Behring, King of Prussia, PA. 
4. "Product Information. Xyntha (antihemophilic factor)." Wyeth Laboratories, Philadelphia, PA. 
Not all side effects for Monarc-M may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Fever


Changes in facial skin color
chills
fast or irregular breathing
nausea
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes
sensation of burning, warmth, heat, numbness, tightness, or tingling
skin rash, hives, or itching
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing
unusual tiredness or weakness


Bluish color of the fingernails, lips, skin, palms, or nail beds
blurred vision
chest pain or discomfort
confusion
cough
deep or fast breathing with dizziness
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
noisy breathing
numbness of the feet, hands, and around the mouth
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
slow or irregular heartbeat
sweating
swelling of the face, throat, or tongue
unusual tiredness or weakness


Headache


Burning, stinging, or swelling at the place of injection
diarrhea
dizziness or lightheadedness
dry mouth or bad taste in the mouth
lack or loss of strength
nosebleed
redness of the face
vomiting


Change in taste
loss of taste


Abdominal or stomach pain
feeling of warmth
increased sweating
irritability
muscle or bone pain
redness of the eye
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
redness of the skin
trouble seeing

