Generic Name: coagulation factor ix
Applies to coagulation factor ix: intravenous powder for solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by coagulation factor ix (the active ingredient contained in Mononine). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking coagulation factor ix, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some of the side effects that can occur with coagulation factor ix may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to coagulation factor ix: intravenous kit, intravenous powder for injection
Hypersensitivity side effects have included hypersensitivity reactions, including bronchospastic reactions and/or hypotension and anaphylaxis.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included and the development of high-titer inhibitors necessitating alternative treatments to factor IX replacement therapy.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea and vomiting.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included hives, rash, and flushing.[Ref]
Local side effects have included Injection site reaction, Injection site pain, cellulitis at IV site, and phlebitis at IV site.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included headache, dizziness, taste perversion (altered taste), shaking, and drowsiness.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included dry cough, hypoxia, chest tightness, and dyspnea (respiratory distress)[Ref]
General side effects have included fever.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have included blurred vision.[Ref]
Renal side effects have e included renal infarction.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Alphanine SD (coagulation factor IX)." Grifols Biologicals Inc, Los Angeles, CA. 
2. "Product Information. Mononine (coagulation factor IX)." CSL Behring, King of Prussia, PA. 
3. "Product Information. BeneFIX (coagulation factor IX)." Wyeth Laboratories, Philadelphia, PA. 
Not all side effects for Mononine may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Anxiety
blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chest pain
confusion
cough
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness or lightheadedness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fainting
fast heartbeat
hives, itching, or skin rash
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
nausea
pains in the chest, groin, or legs, especially calves of the legs
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
restlessness
severe headaches of sudden onset
sudden loss of coordination
sudden onset of shortness of breath for no apparent reason
sudden onset of slurred speech
sudden shortness of breath or troubled breathing
sudden vision changes
sweating
tenderness, pain, swelling, warmth, skin discoloration, and prominent superficial veins over affected area
tightness in the chest
unusual drowsiness, dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting


Change in taste
loss of taste
headache
pain in the arms or legs

