Generic Name: atropine / difenoxin
Applies to atropine / difenoxin: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by atropine / difenoxin. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking atropine / difenoxin:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking atropine / difenoxin, get emergency help immediately:

Some of the side effects that can occur with atropine / difenoxin may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:
After you stop taking this drug, it is possible that you may still experience side effects that need medical attention. If you notice any of the following side effects check with your doctor immediately:


Applies to atropine / difenoxin: oral tablet
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea (1 in 15 patients), vomiting (1 in 30 patients), dry mouth (1 in 30 patients), epigastric distress (1 in 100 patients), and constipation ( 1 in 300 patients).In patients receiving chemically-related drugs, toxic megacolon, paralytic ileus, pancreatitis, and anorexia have been reported.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included tachycardia with the use of atropine.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included dizziness (1 in 20 patients), lightheadedness (1 in 20 patients), drowsiness (1 in 25 patients), headache (1 in 40 patients).  Other less common side effects have included tiredness and insomnia.  Patients receiving chemically-related drugs have reported confusion, numbness of extremities, euphoria, depression, and sedation.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included anaphylaxis, angioneurotic edema, urticaria, swelling of the gums, and pruritus.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have included burning eyes and blurred vision.[Ref]
General side effects reported with use of atropine have included flushing and hyperthermia.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included urinary retention with use of atropine.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Motofen (atropine-difenoxin)." Carnrick Laboratories Inc, Cedar Knolls, NJ. 
Not all side effects for Motofen may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Bloating
constipation
loss of appetite
stomach pain (severe) with nausea and vomiting


Blurred vision (continuing) or changes in near vision
drowsiness (severe)
dryness of mouth, nose, and throat (severe)
fast heartbeat
shortness of breath or troubled breathing (severe)
unusual excitement, nervousness, restlessness, or irritability 
unusual warmth, dryness, and flushing of skin


Blurred vision
confusion
difficult urination
dizziness or lightheadedness 
drowsiness
dryness of skin and mouth
fever
 headache
trouble in sleeping
 unusual tiredness or weakness


Increased sweating
muscle cramps
nausea or vomiting
shivering or trembling 
stomach cramps

