Hypersensitivity reactions are more likely in patients with a history of allergy, asthma, hay fever, or urticaria.
Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in up to 10% of patients and have included anaphylaxis, urticarial rash, erythematous maculopapular rash, serum sickness-like reactions, erythema multiforme, urticaria, edema, hypotension, fever, eosinophilia, exfoliative dermatitis, toxic epidermal necrolysis, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, hypersensitivity vasculitis, angioedema, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and dyspnea.
Dermatologic side effects have included rash, fixed drug eruption, and bullous pemphigoid.  Erythematous maculopapular rashes occur frequently in patients with infectious mononucleosis who take amoxicillin (the active ingredient contained in Moxatag)  these may be due to hypersensitivity.
Three out of four patients with infectious mononucleosis and an amoxicillin-associated rash displayed hypersensitivity to amoxicillin and ampicillin by skin tests and lymphocyte transformation tests.  Two of these patients had side-chain-specific sensitization.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, generalized abdominal cramps, colitis, hemorrhagic colitis, pseudomembranous colitis (Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea), and black hairy tongue.  Abdominal pain has also been reported.
Amoxicillin has been associated with hemorrhagic, sometimes inflammatory colitis, which typically affects the ascending colon.  Clostridium difficile pseudomembranous colitis has been reported.
Renal side effects have included crystalluria and acute interstitial nephritis, often associated with fever, rash and eosinophilia.
A patient undergoing dental extraction and receiving warfarin anticoagulation therapy had prolonged bleeding times (PT and INR), and decreased hemoglobin and hematocrit.  The bleeding was felt due to vitamin K deficiency as a result of depletion of intrinsic vitamin K-producing gut flora from use of amoxicillin (the active ingredient contained in Moxatag) for prophylaxis of subacute bacterial endocarditis.
Hematologic side effects associated with penicillins have included thrombocytopenia, anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenic purpura, agranulocytosis, hemolytic anemia, eosinophilia, and granulocytopenia.  These effects are usually reversible and are believed to be due to hypersensitivity reactions.
Immunologic side effects have included mucocutaneous candidiasis and vulvovaginal mycotic infection.
Nervous system side effects have rarely included headache, somnolence, dizziness, reversible hyperactivity, agitation, anxiety, insomnia, confusion, convulsions, behavioral changes, and aseptic meningitis.  Rare cases of psychosis associated with amoxicillin (the active ingredient contained in Moxatag) therapy have been reported but may have been due to underlying infection or concomitant medication.
Hepatic side effects have included moderate elevations of AST (SGOT) and/or ALT (SGPT) levels, cholestatic jaundice, hepatic cholestasis, and acute cytolytic hepatitis.
Other side effects have rarely included brown, yellow, or gray tooth discoloration, primarily in pediatric patients.  Brushing or dental cleaning reduced or eliminated the discoloration in most cases.
Respiratory side effects have included cough and rhinorrhea.
Abdominal or stomach cramps or tenderness
back, leg, or stomach pains
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating
blood in the urine
bloody nose
chest pain
chills
clay-colored stools
cough
dark urine
diarrhea
diarrhea, watery and severe, which may also be bloody
difficulty with breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
feeling of discomfort
fever
general body swelling
headache
heavier menstrual periods
hives or welts
increased thirst
inflammation of the joints
itching
joint or muscle pain
loss of appetite
muscle aches
nausea or vomiting
nosebleeds
pain
pain in the lower back
pain or burning while urinating
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rash
red, irritated eyes
redness, soreness, or itching skin
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
sores, welting, or blisters
sudden decrease in the amount of urine
swollen, lymph glands
tenderness
tightness in the chest
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight loss
vomiting of blood
watery or bloody diarrhea
wheezing
yellow eyes or skin
Bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
change in taste
Agitation
black, hairy tongue
changes in behavior
confusion
convulsions
discoloration of the tooth (brown, yellow, or gray staining)
dizziness
sleeplessness
trouble with sleeping
unable to sleep
white patches in the mouth or throat or on the tongue
white patches with diaper rash