Generic Name: moxifloxacin ophthalmic
Applies to moxifloxacin ophthalmic: ophthalmic solution
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by moxifloxacin ophthalmic (the active ingredient contained in Moxeza). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking moxifloxacin ophthalmic:
Some of the side effects that can occur with moxifloxacin ophthalmic may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to moxifloxacin ophthalmic: ophthalmic solution
The most common side effects were eye irritation and eye pain.
Common (1% to 10%): Conjunctivitis, decreased visual acuity, dry eye, keratitis, ocular discomfort, ocular hyperemia, ocular pain, ocular pruritus, subconjunctival hemorrhage, tearing, eye irritation, eye painUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Punctuate keratitis, eye pruritus, conjunctival hemorrhage, eyelid edemaRare (less than 0.1%): Corneal epithelium defect, corneal disorder, blepharitis, eye swelling, conjunctival edema, blurred vision, asthenopia, erythema of eyelidFrequency not reported: Endophthalmitis, ulcerative keratitis, corneal erosion, corneal abrasion, intraocular pressure increased, corneal opacity, corneal infiltrates, corneal deposits, eye allergy, corneal edema, photophobia, lacrimation increased, eye discharge, foreign body sensation in eyes, corneal staining, eyelid disorder, abnormal sensation in eye[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Increased cough, pharyngitis, rhinitisRare (less than 0.1%): Nasal discomfort, pharyngolaryngeal pain, sensation of foreign body (throat)Frequency not reported: Dyspnea[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): RashFrequency not reported: Erythema, pruritus, urticaria[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Otitis media, fever/pyrexia, infection[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Dysgeusia, headacheRare (less than 0.1%): ParesthesiaFrequency not reported: Dizziness[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): VomitingFrequency not reported: Nausea[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Decreased hemoglobin[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Increased ALT, increased GGT[Ref]
Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions (some after first dose) have been reported with systemic quinolones.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: HypersensitivitySystemic quinolones:-Frequency not reported: Hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Palpitations[Ref]
Systemic fluoroquinolones:-Frequency not reported: Tendon ruptures[Ref]
Ruptures of the shoulder, hand, Achilles, or other tendons (requiring surgical repair or resulting in prolonged disability) have been reported with systemic fluoroquinolones.  Risk of such ruptures may be increased in patients using concomitant corticosteroids, especially geriatric patients and in tendons under high stress (including the Achilles tendon).[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Moxeza (moxifloxacin ophthalmic)." Alcon Laboratories Inc, Fort Worth, TX. 
2. "Product Information. Vigamox (moxifloxacin ophthalmic)." Alcon Laboratories Inc, Fort Worth, TX. 
3. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
Not all side effects for Moxeza may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Fainting or loss of consciousness
fast or irregular breathing
itching
skin rash
swelling of the eyes or eyelids
tightness in the chest or wheezing
trouble with breathing


Burning, dry, or itching eyes
change in vision
decreased vision
dry eye
excessive tearing
eye discharge
itching of the eye
pain in the eye
red, sore eyes
redness of the eye
swelling of the eye, eyelid, or inner lining of the eyelid
tearing


Body aches or pain
congestion
cough or hoarseness
decreased hearing
dryness or soreness of the throat
fever or chills
general body discomfort
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
rash
rubbing or pulling of the ears (in children)
runny nose
sore throat
tender, swollen glands in the neck
trouble with swallowing
voice changes
vomiting and diarrhea (in infants)

