Generic Name: dronedarone
More frequent side effects include: abdominal pain, allergic dermatitis, diarrhea, eczema, nausea, pruritus, and skin rash.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to dronedarone: oral tablet
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by dronedarone (the active ingredient contained in Multaq). In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking dronedarone:
Some of the side effects that can occur with dronedarone may not need medical attention. As your body adjusts to the medicine during treatment these side effects may go away. Your health care professional may also be able to tell you about ways to reduce or prevent some of these side effects. If any of the following side effects continue, are bothersome or if you have any questions about them, check with your health care professional:


Applies to dronedarone: oral tablet
Very common (10% or more): QT prolongation (28%)Common (1% to 10%): BradycardiaVery rare (less than 0.01%): New or worsening heart failure, atrial flutter with 1:1 atrioventricular conduction[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia with potassium-depleting diuretics, serum creatinine increased 10% or more within 5 days after treatment initiation[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Diarrhea, nausea, abdominal pain, vomiting, dyspeptic symptomsFrequency not reported: Dysgeusia, ageusia[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Rashes (generalized, macular, maculopapular, erythematous), pruritus, eczema, dermatitis, allergic dermatitisUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Photosensitivity[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Asthenia, fatigue[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Liver injury, including acute liver failure requiring transplant, serum hepatic enzymes, serum bilirubin increase
Frequency not reported: Dyspnea, nonproductive cough Postmarketing reports: Interstitial lung disease including pneumonitis and pulmonary fibrosis
Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infection
Postmarketing reports: Vasculitis, including leukocytoclastic vasculitis
Postmarketing reports: Anaphylactic reactions including angioedema
Frequency not reported: Increased serum creatinine[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Multaq (dronedarone)." sanofi-aventis , Bridgewater, NJ. 
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
3. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
Not all side effects for Multaq may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Chest pain or discomfort
lightheadedness, dizziness, or fainting
shortness of breath
slow or irregular heartbeat
unusual tiredness


Abdominal or stomach pain, severe
chills
cough
dark urine
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
loss of appetite
nausea or vomiting
thickening of bronchial secretions
unusual tiredness or weakness
yellow eyes or skin


Diarrhea
lack or loss of strength


Acid or sour stomach
belching
blistering, crusting, irritation, itching, or reddening of the skin
cracked, dry, or scaly skin
heartburn
indigestion
itching skin
rash
redness or discoloration of the skin
skin rash, encrusted, scaly, and oozing
skin rash, hives, itching, or redness
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
swelling


Change in taste
increased sensitivity of the skin to sunlight
loss of taste
severe sunburn

