Local side effects have included burning/stinging at the injection site and wheal and flare.
Hypersensitivity reactions have included anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid reactions, angioneurotic edema (including peripheral or facial edema), and bronchial spasm.
Cardiovascular side effects have included vasculitis.
Dermatologic side effects have included Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, erythema multiforme, and urticaria.
Endocrine side effects have included diabetes mellitus.
Genitourinary side effects have included orchitis.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included pancreatitis; diarrhea, and parotitis.
Hematologic side effects have included thrombocytopenia, purpura, lymphadenopathy, and leukocytosis.
Nervous system side effects have included encephalitis, Guillain-Barré Syndrome (GBS), febrile seizures, ocular palsies,  and aseptic meningitis.
Although a causal relationship between the Urabe strain of mumps vaccine and aseptic meningitis has been shown, there are no data that associate the currently used Jeryl Lynn vaccine strain to aseptic meningitis.
Ocular side effects have included optic neuritis, papillitis, retrobulbar neuritis, and conjunctivitis.
Respiratory side effects have included cough and rhinitis.
Otic side effects have included nerve deafness and otitis media.
Other side effects have included fever, syncope, and irritability.Fatalities have been reported following administration of the polyvalent measles/mumps/rubella vaccine; however, causality has not been determined.Health care providers should report any allergic or unusual adverse reactions to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) at 1-800-822-7967 (USA) and the manufacturer.
A postmarketing surveillance study in Finland during 1982 to 1993 with 1.5 million pediatric and adult vaccinees (measles/mumps/rubella vaccine) reported no deaths or permanent sequelae.
Difficulty in breathing or swallowing
 hives
itching, especially of feet or hands
reddening of skin, especially around ears
 swelling of eyes, face, or inside of nose
unusual tiredness or weakness (sudden and severe)
Bruising or purple spots on skin
confusion 
fever over 103 °F (39.4 °C)
headache (severe or continuing)
irritability 
pain, tenderness, or swelling in testicles and scrotum (in adolescent boys and men)
stiff neck 
vomiting
Burning or stinging at place of injection
Fever of 100 °F (37.7 °C) or less
 itching, swelling, redness, tenderness, or hard lump at place of injection 
skin rash
swollen glands on side of face or neck