Generic Name: nystatin / triamcinolone topical
Applies to nystatin / triamcinolone topical: topical cream, topical ointment
In addition to its needed effects, some unwanted effects may be caused by nystatin / triamcinolone topical. In the event that any of these side effects do occur, they may require medical attention.
You should check with your doctor immediately if any of these side effects occur when taking nystatin / triamcinolone topical:
If any of the following side effects occur while taking nystatin / triamcinolone topical, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Many of the above side effects are more likely to occur in children, who may absorb greater amounts of this medicine.


Applies to nystatin / triamcinolone topical: topical cream, topical ointment
Dermatologic side effects associated with topical corticosteroids have included burning, itching, irritation, dryness, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, skin maceration, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, and miliaria.  Irritation may occur rarely with nystatin, which is nonsensitizing and virtually nontoxic.One case (1% of cases studied) of acneiform eruption has been reported with the use of the nystatin-triamcinolone topical combination.[Ref]
Endocrine side effects associated with triamcinolone preparations have included adrenal suppression, hyperglycemia, and glycosuria in some individuals.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Mycolog II (nystatin-triamcinolone topical)" Apothecon Inc, Princeton, NJ. 
Not all side effects for Mycolog II may be reported. You should always consult a doctor or healthcare professional for medical advice. Side effects can be reported to the FDA here.

Blistering, burning, dryness, itching, peeling, or other sign of irritation not present before use of this medicine


Acne or oily skin
increased hair growth, especially on the face
increased loss of hair, especially on the scalp
reddish purple lines on arms, face, legs, trunk, or groin
thinning of skin with easy bruising

