Applies to nandrolone: intramuscular solution
Cardiovascular effects may be precipitated in patients adversely affected by fluid retention.   Edema, with and without congestive heart failure, has occurred during anabolic steroid therapy.[Ref]
Genitourinary effects following chronic administration and/or large dosages of anabolic steroids can result in oligospermia and decreased ejaculatory volume.  Elderly male patients may experience prostatic enlargement resulting in urinary obstruction.  Priapism and excessive stimulation may develop.  Female patients may experience virilization including deepening voice, hirsutism, acne, clitomegaly (not reversible), and menstrual abnormalities.  Discontinuation of medication at signs of mild virilization may prevent irreversible virilization.  Alterations in libido may occur (increased/decreased).[Ref]
Life-threatening peliosis hepatis and hepatic abnormalities such as hepatic neoplasms and hepatocellular carcinomas have occurred following prolonged therapy with high doses of anabolic steroids.  Tumor regression did not occur in all cases following medication withdrawal.  Cholestatic hepatitis, jaundice, and abnormal liver function tests may occur at relatively low dosages.[Ref]
Hepatic tumors associated with anabolic steroid use are more vascular than other hepatic tumors and may remain silent until the development of life-threatening abdominal hemorrhage.  Peliosis hepatis may present as mild liver dysfunction, but has resulted in liver failure.[Ref]
Female patients may experience virilization including deepening voice, hirsutism, acne, clitomegaly (not reversible), and menstrual abnormalities.  Discontinuation of anabolic steroids at signs of mild virilization may prevent irreversible virilization.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal effects of anabolic steroids involve closure of the epiphyseal growth centers by termination of linear bone growth.  Appropriate monitoring of bone age is recommended during use in prepubertal patients.[Ref]
Oncologic effects following prolonged therapy with large doses of anabolic steroids have included hepatic neoplasms and hepatocellular carcinomas.[Ref]
Hematologic effects occurring during anabolic steroid therapy included alterations in clotting factors II, V, VII and X , prolonged prothrombin time (PT), and increased red cell production.[Ref]
Endocrine side effects noted during exogenous administration of anabolic steroids have included inhibition of endogenous testosterone release by means of feedback inhibition of pituitary luteinizing hormone (LH).   Large doses of exogenous anabolic steroids may suppress spermatogenesis through inhibition of pituitary follicle stimulating hormone (FSH).  The androgenic activity of anabolic steroids may decrease levels of thyroxin-binding globulin and result in decreased total T4 serum levels and increased resin uptake of T3 and T4.  Free thyroid hormone levels remain unchanged and there is no clinical evidence of thyroid dysfunction.[Ref]
Metabolic effects occurring during anabolic steroid therapy in immobilized patients or those with metastatic breast disease have included osteolytic-induced hypercalcemia.  Anabolic steroids affect electrolyte balance, nitrogen retention, and urinary calcium excretion.  Edema, with and without congestive heart failure, has occurred.  Decreased glucose tolerance requiring adjustments in hyperglycemic control has been noted in diabetic patients.  Significant increases in low density lipoproteins (LDL) and decreases in high density lipoproteins (HDL) have occurred.[Ref]
Renal retention of nitrogen, sodium, potassium, chloride, water and phosphorus, and decreased urinary excretion of calcium have occurred.[Ref]
Psychiatric effects of anabolic steroids have included habituation, excitation, insomnia, depression, and libido changes.[Ref]
Acne has been the dermatologic side effect most frequently reported.  The greatest incidence of occurrence has been in women and prepubertal males.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal effects occurring during nandrolone therapy have included nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.[Ref]
1. Kuipers H, Wijnen JA, Hartgens F, Willems SM "Influence of anabolic steroids on body composition, blood pressure, lipid profile and liver functions in body builders." Int J Sports Med 12 (1991): 413-8
2. Johansen KL, Mulligan K, Schambelan M "Anabolic effects of nandrolone decanoate in patients receiving dialysis: a randomized controlled trial." JAMA 281 (1999): 1275-81
3. "Product Information. Deca-Durabolin (nandrolone)" Organon, West Orange, NJ. 
4. Moldawer M "Anabolic agents: clinical efficacy versus side effects." J Am Med Womens Assoc 23 (1968): 352-69
5. Geusens P "Nandrolone decanoate: pharmacological properties and therapeutic use in osteoporosis." Clin Rheumatol 14(suppl 3) (1995): 32-9
6. Hassager C, Podenphant J, Riis BJ, Johansen JS, Jensen J, Christiansen C "Changes in soft tissue body composition and plasma lipid metabolism during nandrolone decanoate therapy in postmenopausal osteoporoti women." Metabolism 38 (1989): 238-42
7. Cattran DC, Fenton SS, Wilson DR, Oreopoulos D, Shimizu A, Richardson RM "A controlled trial of nondrolone decanoate in the treatment of uremic anemia." Kidney Int 12 (1977): 430-7
It is possible that some side effects of nandrolone may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
