Generic Name: flunisolide nasal
Applies to flunisolide nasal: nasal spray
 Check with your doctor if any of these most COMMON side effects persist or become bothersome:
Aftertaste; cough; nasal burning, dryness, or stinging; nausea; nosebleed; sore throat.
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; itching; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, or tongue); decreased sense of smell; excessive sneezing; muscle weakness; nasal discomfort or irritation; repeated nosebleeds; unusual weight gain, especially in the face; white patches in the mouth, nose, or throat.

Applies to flunisolide nasal: nasal spray
Flunisolide has been generally well tolerated and, due to its route of administration, has not been inclined to produce the adverse effects generally associated with systemic corticosteroids.  The most frequent complaints have been related to nasal mucus membrane irritation.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea and vomiting in less than 5% of patients.  Bitterness and/or bad taste occurred more frequently.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included nasal irritation, burning and stinging, congestion, epistaxis, sneezing, and rarely, nasal septal perforations.  Temporary or permanent loss of the sense of smell and taste have occurred with both oral inhalation and intranasal formulations.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have been generally limited to headache, which occurred in less than 5% of patients.[Ref]
Endocrine side effects have rarely included suppression of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.  The risk of adrenal suppression has been less than that associated with systemic corticosteroids and was generally only of concern when using higher than recommended dosages or in patients who may be particularly sensitive.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included rare reports of rash.[Ref]
1. Pakes GE, Brogden RN, Heel RD, Speight TM, Avery GS "Flunisolide: a review of its pharmacological properties and therapeutic efficacy in rhinitis." Drugs 19 (1980): 397-411
2. "Product Information. Nasalide (flunisolide)." Syntex Laboratories Inc, Palo Alto, CA. 
3. Turkeltaub PC, Norman PS, Johnson JD, Crepea S "Treatment of seasonal and perennial rhinitis with intranasal flunisolide." Allergy 37 (1982): 303-11
4. Clayton DE, Kooistra JB, Geller M, Ouellette J, Cohen M, Reed CE, Busse W "Short-term efficacy trial and twenty-four-month follow-up of flunisolide nasal spray in the treatment of perennial rhinitis." J Allergy Clin Immunol 67 (1981): 2-7
5. Meltzer EO, Orgel HA, Bush RK, Haltom JR, Metzger WJ, Moss BA, Mitchell DQ, Ballas ZK, Seltzer JM, Shapiro GG, et al "Evaluation of symptom relief acceptability of two formulations of flunisolide nasal spray in patients with perennial allergic rhinitis." Ann Allergy 64 (1990): 536-40
6. Pipkorn U, Geterud A "A comparative trial testing budesonide and flunisolide nasal sprays in patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis." Ann Allergy 52 (1984): 183-6
7. Dickson DJ, Cruickshank JM "Comparison of flunisolide nasal spray and terfenadine tablets in hay fever." Br J Clin Pract 38 (1984): 416-20
8. Greenbaum J, Leznoff A, Schulz J, Mazza J, Tobe A, Miller D "Comparative tolerability of two formulations of Rhinalar (flunisolide) nasal spray in patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis." Ann Allergy 61 (1988): 305-10
9. Sorkin S, Warren D "Probable adrenal suppression from intranasal beclomethasone." J Fam Pract 22 (1986): 449-50
It is possible that some side effects of Nasarel may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
