Generic Name: triamcinolone nasal
Applies to triamcinolone nasal: nasal aerosol powder, nasal spray
As well as its needed effects, triamcinolone nasal (the active ingredient contained in Nasacort AQ) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking triamcinolone nasal, check with your doctor immediately:
Some triamcinolone nasal side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to triamcinolone nasal: nasal aerosol, nasal aerosol with adapter, nasal spray
Triamcinolone nasal (the active ingredient contained in Nasacort AQ) has been generally well tolerated and, due to the nature of its administration, has not been inclined to produce the systemic adverse effects generally associated with the use of corticosteroids.[Ref]
The central nervous system side effect of headache has been reported in 18% of patients.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included nasal irritation, pharyngitis, dry mucous membranes, burning and stinging, congestion, epistaxis, sneezing, and rarely, nasal septal perforations.[Ref]
Endocrine side effects have included rare reports of suppression of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis.  The risk of adrenal suppression is less than that associated with systemic corticosteroids and is generally only of concern when using higher than recommended doses or in patients who may be particularly sensitive.[Ref]
Ocular adverse effects are more commonly seen with systemic administration of corticosteroids.  However, posterior capsular cataracts have been occasionally reported with triamcinolone, especially with long-term use.  In addition, prolonged use of high-dose inhaled corticosteroids ( >= 440 mcg of triamcinolone nasal (the active ingredient contained in Nasacort AQ)  may be associated with increased risk of ocular hypertension and open angle glaucoma.[Ref]
1. Kobayashi RH, Beaucher WN, Koepke JW, Luskin A, Ransom JH, Rosen JP, Sullivan MJ, Alderfer VB, Simpson B, Smith JA "Triamcinolone acetonide aqueous nasal spray for the treatment of patients with perennial allergic rhinitis: a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study." Clin Ther 17 (1995): 503-13
2. "Product Information. Nasacort (triamcinolone nasal)." Rhone-Poulenc Rorer, Collegeville, PA. 
3. "Intranasal triamcinolone for allergic rhinitis." Med Lett Drugs Ther 33 (1991): 116-7
4. Bernstein DI, Creticos PS, Busse WW, Cohen R, Graft DF, Howland WC, Lumry WR, Pedinoff AJ, Ratner PH, Lim J, Stokes A, M "Comparison of triamcinolone acetonide nasal inhaler with astemizole in the treatment of ragweed-induced allergic rhinitis." J Allergy Clin Immunol 97 (1996): 749-55
5. Banov CH, Silvers WS, Green AV, Vanbavel JH, Winder JA, Feiss G, Simpson B, Furst JA, Smith JA "Placebo-controlled, double-blind study of the efficacy and safety of triamcinolone acetonide aerosol nasal inhaler in pediatric patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis." Clin Ther 18 (1996): 265-72
6. Munk ZM, Laforce C, Furst JA, Simpson B, Feiss G, Smith JA "Efficacy and safety of triamcinolone acetonide aqueous nasal spray in patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis." Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol 77 (1996): 277-81
7. Settipane G, Korenblat PE, Winder J, Lumry W, Murphree J, Alderfer VB, Simpson B, Smith JA "Triamcinolone acetonide aqueous nasal spray in patients with seasonal ragweed allergic rhinitis: a placebo-controlled, double-blind study." Clin Ther 17 (1995): 252-63
8. Howland WC, Dockhorn R, Gillman S, Gross GN, Hille D, Simpson B, Furst JA, Feiss G, Smith JA "A comparison of effects of triamcinolone acetonide aqueous nasal spray, oral prednisone, and placebo on adrenocortical function in male patients with allergic rhinitis." J Allergy Clin Immunol 98 (1996): 32-8
9. Wilson AM, McFarlane LC, Lipworth BJ "Effects of repeated once daily dosing of three intranasal corticosteroids on basal and dynamic measures of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal-axis activity." J Allergy Clin Immunol 101 (1998): 470-4
10. Spaeth GL, Rodrigues MM, Weinreb S "Steroid-induced glaucoma: A. Persistent elevation of intraocular pressure B. Histopathological aspects." Trans Am Ophthalmol Soc 75 (1977): 353-81
11. Cumming RG, Mitchell P, Leeder SR "Use of inhaled corticosteroids and the risk of cataracts." N Engl J Med 337 (1997): 8-14
It is possible that some side effects of Nasacort AQ may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Body aches or pain
chills
congestion
diarrhea
dryness or soreness of the throat
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
hoarseness
increased cough
joint pain
loss of appetite
muscle aches and pains
nausea
runny nose
shivering
sweating
tender, swollen glands in the neck
trouble sleeping
trouble with swallowing
unexplained nosebleeds
unusual tiredness or weakness
voice changes
vomiting


Cough producing mucus
difficulty with breathing
noisy breathing
shortness of breath
tightness in the chest


Blindness
bloody mucus
blurred vision
changes in vision
darkening of the skin
decreased vision
eye pain
fainting
fast heartbeat
hives
irritation
itching
joint stiffness or swelling
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
mental depression
painful or difficult urination
rash
redness of the skin
slowing of normal growth in children
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, hands, or feet
tearing
trouble healing
white patches in the throat


Acid or sour stomach
belching
heartburn
indigestion
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
tooth problems
upper abdominal or stomach pain


Change in sense of smell or taste

