As well as its needed effects, dienogest / estradiol may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Some dienogest / estradiol side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Cardiovascular side effects have included venous thromboembolism, cerebrovascular events (thrombotic and hemorrhagic strokes), and myocardial infarctions.
Hepatic side effects have included jaundice, hepatic adenomas, cholestasis, focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver and hepatic carcinoma.
Genitourinary side effects have included irregular uterine bleeding, breast pain, discomfort or tenderness, metrorrhagia and irregular menstruation, uterine leiomyoma, and ruptured ovarian cyst.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea and/or vomiting.
Nervous system side effects have included headache and migraine.
Dermatologic side effects have included acne.
General side effects have included weight gain.
It is possible that some side effects of Natazia may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Breast pain, discomfort, or tenderness
headache, severe and throbbing
irregular menstrual periods
nausea
normal menstrual bleeding occurring earlier, possibly lasting longer than expected
vomiting
Abdominal or stomach pain
chills
clay-colored stools
dark urine
difficulty with breathing
dizziness
fever
headache
itching
loss of appetite
pain in the chest, groin, or legs, especially the calves
rash
slurred speech
sudden loss of coordination
sudden, severe weakness or numbness in the arm or leg
sudden, unexplained shortness of breath
unpleasant breath odor
unusual tiredness or weakness
vision changes
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin
Abdominal or stomach bloating
anxiety
blood in the stool
chest pain or discomfort
decrease in the amount of urine
fainting
hives
irritation
itching of the vagina or genitals
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
noisy, rattling breathing
pain in the ankles or knees
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
pain, redness, or swelling in the arm or leg
painful, red lumps under the skin, mostly on the legs
pelvic pain
pounding in the ears
redness of the skin
shortness of breath
slow or fast heartbeat
stomach or pelvic discomfort, aching, or heaviness
sweating
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, hands, lower legs, or feet
thick, white vaginal discharge with mild or no odor
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing at rest
troubled breathing or swallowing
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
weight gain
wheezing
Blemishes on the skin
increased weight
pimples
Patchy brown or dark brown discoloration of the skin