More frequent side effects include: upper respiratory tract infection, headache, and nasopharyngitis.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, alogliptin (the active ingredient contained in Nesina) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Some alogliptin side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most frequently reported side effects included nasopharyngitis, headache, and upper respiratory tract infection.
Common (1% to 10%): Abdominal pain, gastroesophageal reflux diseaseUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Pancreatitis Postmarketing reports: Acute pancreatitis, diarrhea, constipation, nausea, ileus
During clinical trials, acute pancreatitis was reported in 6 (0.2%) patients receiving 25 mg and 2 patients (less than 0.1%) who were treated with active comparators or placebo.  In a cardiovascular outcome trial of patient with high cardiovascular risk, acute pancreatitis was reported in 10 patients receiving this drug and 7 patients receiving placebo (0.4% vs 0.3%).
Frequency not reported: Arthralgia
Between October 2006 and December 2013, thirty-three cases of severe arthralgia have been reported to the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System Database.  Each case involved the use of 1 or more dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor.  In all cases, substantial reduction in prior activity level was reported, 10 patients were hospitalized due to disabling joint pain.  In 22 cases, symptoms appeared within 1 month of starting therapy, in 23 cases symptoms resolved less than 1 month after discontinuation.  A positive rechallenge was reported in 8 cases, with 6 cases involving use of a different DPP-4 inhibitor.  Sitagliptin had the greatest number of cases reported (n=28) followed by saxagliptin (n=5), linagliptin (n=2), alogliptin (n=1), and vildagliptin (n=2).
Postmarketing reports: Hepatic enzyme elevations, fulminant hepatic failure
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Hypersensitivity reactions (0.6%)Postmarketing reports: Anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, urticaria, severe cutaneous adverse reactions (Stevens-Johnson syndrome)
Common (1% to 10%): Headache
Common (1% to 10%): Nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection
Postmarketing reports of bullous pemphigoid requiring hospitalization have been reported with dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors use.  These case typically recovered with topical or systemic immunosuppressive treatment and discontinuation of DPP-4 inhibitor.
Common (1% to 10%): Pruritus, rashPostmarketing reports: Exfoliative skin conditions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, angioedema, urticariaDipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors:Postmarketing reports: Bullous pemphigoid
Common (1% to 10%): Hypoglycemia
Based on a pooled analysis the hypoglycemic risk of this drug was considered neutral.
Frequency not reported: Heart failure
In a clinical trial in patients with recent acute coronary syndrome, a greater proportion of patients receiving this drug were hospitalized for congestive heart failure compared with placebo (3.9% [n=106] vs 3.3% [n=89]),
It is possible that some side effects of Nesina may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Anxiety
blurred vision
chills
cold sweats
coma
confusion
cool, pale skin
depression
dizziness
fast heartbeat
headache
increased hunger
nausea
nightmares
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
unusual tiredness or weakness
Chest pain
decreased urine output
dilated neck veins
extreme fatigue
irregular breathing
irregular heartbeat
swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or lower legs
tightness in chest
troubled breathing
weight gain
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating
constipation
cough
dark-colored urine
diarrhea
difficulty with swallowing
feeling of discomfort
fever
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
headache
hives, itching, or rash
indigestion
inflammation of the joints
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
muscle aches
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
stomach pain, continuing
swollen lymph glands
tightness in the chest
vomiting
yellow eyes or skin
Redness of the skin
severe joint pain
Body aches or pain
ear congestion
loss of voice
sneezing
stuffy or runny nose