Generic Name: nimodipine
Applies to nimodipine: oral capsule liquid filled, oral solution, oral tablet
As well as its needed effects, nimodipine (the active ingredient contained in Nimotop) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking nimodipine, check with your doctor immediately:
Some nimodipine side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to nimodipine: oral capsule, oral liquid
Cardiovascular effects have frequently been associated with the use of nimodipine (the active ingredient contained in Nimotop)  and are related to its vasodilatory properties.  Mild to moderate hypotension has been reported in up to 5% of patients, and was the reason less than 1% of patients chose to discontinue therapy.  Bradycardia has been reported and may be severe in rare cases.  Rare cardiovascular side effects have included tachycardia, hypertension, peripheral edema, dizziness, and flushing.  A case of pulmonary vasoconstriction has been associated with the use of this drug.[Ref]
The incidence of nervous system side effects associated with the use of nimodipine (the active ingredient contained in Nimotop) has been similar to placebo in large studies.  Headache has been reported in 4% of patients, and is believed to be due to the vasodilatory properties of nimodipine.[Ref]
Hepatic effects include transient, reversible elevations in liver function tests.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects are rare and have included thrombocytopenia and anemia.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal intolerance occurs occasionally.[Ref]
Dermatologic effects include occasional cases of rash.[Ref]
1. "Randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of nimodipine in acute stroke. Trust Study Group." Lancet 336 (1990): 1205-9
2. Grobe-Einsler R "Clinical aspects of nimodipine." Clin Neuropharmacol 16 (1993): S39-45
3. Sramek JJ, Heller AH, Sundaresan PR, Lettieri J, Sawin S, Cutler NR "Safety and tolerance of intravenous nimodipine." Ann Pharmacother 28 (1994): 1143-8
4. Jan M, Buchheit F, Tremoulet M "Therapeutic trial of intravenous nimodipine in patients with established cerebral vasospasm after rupture of intracranial aneurysms." Neurosurgery 23 (1988): 154-7
5. Langley MS, Sorkin EM "Nimodipine. A review of its pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties, and therapeutic potential in cerebrovascular disease." Drugs 37 (1989): 669-99
6. Lovell AT, Smith M "Pulmonary vasoconstriction following intravenous nimodipine." Anaesthesia 47 (1992): 409-10
7. Petruk KC, West M, Mohr G, Weir BK, Benoit BG, Gentili F, Disney LB, Khan MI, Grace M, Holness RO, et al "Nimodipine treatment in poor-grade aneurysm patients. Results of a multicenter double-blind placebo-controlled trial." J Neurosurg 68 (1988): 505-17
8. Fagan SC, Nacci N "Nimodipine and bradycardia in acute stroke--drug or disease?" DICP 25 (1991): 247-9
9. "Product Information. Nimotop (nimodipine)." Bayer, West Haven, CT. 
10. Florence G, Bonvento G, Roucher P, Charbonne R, Seylaz J "Effect of nimodipine on the autoregulation of cerebral blood flow studied by laser-doppler flowmetry." Brain Res 625 (1993): 301-6
11. Gelmers HJ, Gorter K, de Weerdt CJ, Wiezer HJ "A controlled trial of nimodipine in acute ischemic stroke." N Engl J Med 318 (1988): 203-7
12. Torrealba G, Sharp A, Soto B "Nimodipine-treated subarachnoid hemorrhage associated with acute pseudo-obstruction of the colon." Surg Neurol 28 (1987): 150-2
It is possible that some side effects of Nimotop may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Blurred vision
chest pain or discomfort
confusion
difficult or labored breathing
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
lightheadedness, dizziness, or fainting
shortness of breath
slow or irregular heartbeat
sweating
swelling
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness


Abdominal or stomach cramps, discomfort, or pain
back pain
blemishes on the skin
constipation
diarrhea
discouragement
feeling sad or empty
headache
indigestion
irritability
lack or loss of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
muscle pain
nausea or vomiting
pimples
rash
swollen mouth and tongue
tiredness
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
unpleasant taste
urge to have bowel movement

