As well as its needed effects, nitric oxide may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking nitric oxide, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking nitric oxide, get emergency help immediately:
Some nitric oxide side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Hematologic side effects including methemoglobinemia (which increases with the dose of nitric oxide) have been reported.  Elevated NO2 levels have also been reported.
In one study 35% of neonates treated with nitrous oxide 80 ppm had methemoglobin levels exceeding 7%.  Following discontinuation or reduction of nitric oxide the methemoglobin levels returned to baseline over a period of hours.
Cardiovascular side effects including hypotension (13%) have been reported.
Other side effects including withdrawal (12%), sepsis (7%), infection (6%), and cellulitis (5%) have been reported.  Accidental exposure of hospital staff to nitric oxide has been associated with chest discomfort, dizziness, dry throat, dyspnea, and headache.
Respiratory side effects including atelectasis (9%) and stridor (5%) have been reported.
Renal side effects including hematuria (8%) have been reported.
Metabolic side effects including hyperglycemia (8%) have been reported.
It is possible that some side effects of nitric oxide may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Blurred vision
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bluish lips or skin
chest discomfort
difficult or labored breathing
dizziness
tightness in the chest
trouble breathing
Bluish-colored lips, fingernails, or palms
dark urine
fever
headache
pale skin
rapid heart rate
sore throat
unusual bleeding or bruising
Dry throat