As well as its needed effects, ketoconazole (the active ingredient contained in Nizoral) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Some ketoconazole side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Ketoconazole therapy has commonly been associated with transient elevations in liver enzymes, which have resolved despite continued therapy.Serious hepatotoxicity has been reported with both high doses for short durations and low doses for long therapy durations.  Hepatic injury has usually (but not always) been reversible with discontinuation of ketoconazole (the active ingredient contained in Nizoral) therapy.  Hepatitis has been reported in children.Hepatotoxicity has been reported with oral ketoconazole rechallenge.Severe hepatotoxicity (hepatocellular, cholestatic, or mixed) generally occurred after 1 or 2 months of therapy.  Hepatic function usually returned to normal within 1 month, but cases of hepatic failure and death have occurred.
Frequency not reported: Hepatitis, jaundice, abnormal hepatic function, hepatotoxicity, transient elevations of liver enzymes, severe hepatotoxicity (hepatocellular, cholestatic, or mixed)Postmarketing reports: Serious hepatotoxicity including cholestatic hepatitis, biopsy-confirmed hepatic necrosis, cirrhosis, hepatic failure (including cases resulting in death or requiring liver transplantation)
Frequency not reported: Orthostatic hypotension, QT interval prolongation (sometimes resulting in life-threatening ventricular dysrhythmias such as torsades de pointes)
Ketoconazole inhibits hydroxylation of deoxycortisol, which results in diminished cortisol production, especially when given in divided doses.  In some patients, symptomatic adrenal insufficiency may occur, presenting with hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, hypotension, lethargy, depression, and malaise.A 77-year-old male with prostate cancer experienced adrenal crisis coincident with ketoconazole (the active ingredient contained in Nizoral) therapy.  He presented with progressive right lower extremity weakness, debilitating low back pain, and a serum prostate-specific antigen level of 78.8 ng/mL.  He was given ketoconazole 200 mg orally four times daily to reduce serum testosterone levels.  Nine days after initiating ketoconazole therapy, he experienced generalized weakness, abdominal pain, nausea with vomiting, and severely diminished mentation.  The urology service was advised of the patient's admission and suggested that adrenal insufficiency related to high-dose ketoconazole therapy should be considered in the differential diagnosis.  However, a serum cortisol level was not obtained prior to steroid treatment.  An ACTH stimulation test performed 2 days later showed no evidence of underlying adrenal insufficiency when the patient was no longer being given ketoconazole.
Rare (less than 0.1%): HypothyroidismFrequency not reported: Inhibition of cortisol production (sometimes resulting in symptomatic adrenal insufficiency), adrenal crisisPostmarketing reports: Adrenocortical insufficiency
Frequency not reported: Erythema multiforme, rash, dermatitis, erythema, urticaria, pruritus, alopecia, xeroderma, dry skin, bruising, loss of scalp hair, worsening loss of scalp hair, desquamationPostmarketing reports: Acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, photosensitivity
Common (1% to 10%): Gastrointestinal complaints (including nausea, vomiting)Frequency not reported: Diarrhea, constipation, abdominal pain, upper abdominal pain, dry mouth, dysgeusia, dyspepsia, flatulence, tongue discoloration, stomatitis
Gastrointestinal intolerance may resolve with continued therapy and may improve if ketoconazole is taken with food.
A 23-year-old female with vaginal discharge experienced fatal aplastic anemia coincident with ketoconazole (the active ingredient contained in Nizoral) therapy.  She was admitted with widespread purpuric lesions on her face, arms, and legs.  She had taken ketoconazole 200 mg twice daily for vaginal discharge for 4 days before admission.  Ketoconazole was discontinued on admission.  The patient was diagnosed with aplastic anemia based on clinical findings.  The patient did not respond to therapy and died of disseminated candidiasis 2 months later.
Rare (less than 0.1%): Hemolytic anemiaFrequency not reported: Platelet count decreased, fatal aplastic anemiaPostmarketing reports: Thrombocytopenia
A 72-year-old female with a Candida albicans infection experienced a severe reaction of refractory anaphylactic shock coincident with ketoconazole (the active ingredient contained in Nizoral) therapy.  She was initially given oral ketoconazole 200 mg twice daily.  She developed hypotension over the first 2 days of treatment (BP 136/82 mmHg at baseline; 90/50 mmHg on day 2).  Severe hypotension (BP 90/49 mmHg) unresponsive to fluid therapy or high-dose dopamine developed on day 4 of treatment.  When laboratory tests revealed a high level of plasma tryptase, anaphylactic redistribution shock was diagnosed.  Her vital signs became more stable after therapy with hydrocortisone and epinephrine infusion.
Frequency not reported: Anaphylactoid reaction, hypersensitivity reactions (including urticaria), anaphylaxis (sometimes after first dose), cross-sensitivity between imidazoles, drug hypersensitivity (presenting as rash, erythema, pruritus)Postmarketing reports: Allergic conditions including anaphylactic shock, anaphylactic reaction, angioneurotic edema
Gynecomastia and breast tenderness have been reported in male patients.  Gynecomastia in males resulted from decreased steroidogenesis and testosterone production, which led to an increased estrogen to testosterone ratio.
Frequency not reported: Menstrual disorder, serum testosterone decreased, gynecomastia (in males), breast tenderness (in males), oligospermia, polymenorrhea anovulatory cycles, anovulatory oligomenorrheaPostmarketing reports: Erectile dysfunction, azoospermia (with doses higher than recommended dose of 200 to 400 mg per day)
Rare (less than 0.1%): HypoglycemiaFrequency not reported: Alcohol intolerance, anorexia, hyperlipidemia, increased appetite, transient fall in serum cholesterol with an increase in triglycerides
Frequency not reported: Headache, somnolence, dizziness, paresthesiaPostmarketing reports: Reversible increased intracranial pressure (e.g., papilledema, fontanel bulging in infants)
Frequency not reported: Fatigue, asthenia, hot flush, malaise, peripheral edema, pyrexia, chills
Frequency not reported: MyalgiaPostmarketing reports: Arthralgia
Paranoid delusions have been reported in a patient treated with ketoconazole (the active ingredient contained in Nizoral) for cutaneous leishmaniasis.
Rare (less than 0.1%): Confusion, suicidal tendenciesFrequency not reported: Insomnia, nervousness, paranoid delusions
Frequency not reported: Photophobia
Frequency not reported: Epistaxis
It is possible that some side effects of Nizoral may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Back, leg, or stomach pains
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
change in color vision
change in the ability to see colors, especially blue or yellow
chest pain
chills
confusion
cough
dark urine
difficulty seeing at night
difficulty swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
fever
general body swelling
headache
hoarseness
increased sensitivity of the eyes to sunlight
irritation
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
mood or mental changes
nausea or vomiting, severe
nosebleeds
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
redness of the skin
skin rash, hives, itching
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, hands, or feet
swollen glands
tightness in the chest
trouble sleeping
troubled breathing or swallowing
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
vision changes
yellow eyes or skin
Change in number of sperm and their ability to move
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
diarrhea
hair loss or thinning of the hair
inability to have or keep an erection
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
swelling of the breasts or breast soreness for both female and male