Generic Name: acetaminophen / dichloralphenazone / isometheptene mucate
Applies to acetaminophen / dichloralphenazone / isometheptene mucate: oral capsule
Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction while taking acetaminophen / dichloralphenazone / isometheptene mucate:  hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
In rare cases, acetaminophen may cause a severe skin reaction that can be fatal.  This could occur even if you have taken acetaminophen in the past and had no reaction.  Stop taking this medicine and call your doctor right away if you have skin redness or a rash that spreads and causes blistering and peeling.   If you have this type of reaction, you should never again take any medicine that contains acetaminophen.
Stop using this medicine and call your doctor at once if you have:
severe drowsiness or restless feeling, feeling like you might pass out; 
fast, slow, or uneven heart rate;
rapid breathing, weak or shallow breathing;
little or no urinating;
cold feeling; or
liver problems--nausea, upper stomach pain, itching, loss of appetite, dark urine, clay-colored stools, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes).
Common side effects may include:
dizziness, drowsiness; or
upset stomach.
This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. 
Applies to acetaminophen / dichloralphenazone / isometheptene mucate: oral capsule
Transient dizziness and skin rash can usually be eliminated by reducing the dose of acetaminophen/dichloralphenazone/isometheptene.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects including transient dizziness and skin rash have been reported with the use of acetaminophen/dichloralphenazone/isometheptene.  Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis and fixed drug eruptions have been reported rarely in association with acetaminophen use.[Ref]
Alcoholic patients may develop hepatotoxicity after even modest doses of acetaminophen.  In healthy patients, approximately 15 grams of acetaminophen is necessary to deplete liver glutathione stores by 70% in a 70 kg person.  However, hepatotoxicity has been reported following smaller doses.  Glutathione concentrations may be repleted by the antidote N-acetylcysteine.  One case report has suggested that hypothermia may also be beneficial in decreasing liver damage during overdose.In a recent retrospective study of 306 patients admitted for acetaminophen overdose, 6.9% had severe liver injury but all recovered.  None of the 306 patients died.One study has suggested that acetaminophen may precipitate acute biliary pain and cholestasis.  The mechanism of this effect may be related to inhibition of prostaglandin and alterations in the regulation of the sphincter of Oddi.Cases of acute pancreatitis have been reported rarely with the use of acetaminophen.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects including severe and sometimes fatal dose dependent hepatitis have been reported with the use of acetaminophen in alcoholic patients.  Hepatotoxicity has been increased during fasting.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have been rare with the use of acetaminophen except in alcoholics and after overdose.[Ref]
Renal side effects including acute tubular necrosis and interstitial nephritis have been rare with the use of acetaminophen.  Adverse renal effects have been most often observed after overdose, after chronic abuse (often with multiple analgesics), or in association with acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity.[Ref]
Acute tubular necrosis with acetaminophen use usually occurs in conjunction with liver failure, but has been observed as an isolated finding in rare cases.  A possible increase in the risk of renal cell carcinoma has been associated with chronic acetaminophen use as well.A recent case-control study of patients with end-stage renal disease suggested that long term consumption of acetaminophen may significantly increase the risk of end-stage renal disease particularly in patients taking more than two pills per day.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects including rare cases of thrombocytopenia associated with acetaminophen have been reported.  Methemoglobinemia with resulting cyanosis has also been observed in the setting of acute overdose.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects including erythematous skin rashes associated with acetaminophen have been reported rarely.  Acetaminophen associated bullous erythema and purpura fulminans have also been reported.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects including a case of acetaminophen-induced eosinophilic pneumonia have been reported.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects including at least two cases of hypotension have been reported following the administration of acetaminophen.[Ref]
Two cases hypotension have been reported following the administration of acetaminophen.  Both patients experienced significant decreases in blood pressure.  One of the two patients required pressor agents to maintain adequate mean arterial pressures.  Neither episode was associated with symptoms of anaphylaxis.  Neither patient was rechallenged after resolution of the initial episode.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Midrin (APAP/dichloralphenazone/isometheptene)." Carnrick Laboratories Inc, Cedar Knolls, NJ. 
2. Kawada A, Hiruma M, Noguchi H, Ishibashi A "Fixed drug eruption induced by acetaminophen in a 12-year-old girl." Int J Dermatol 35 (1996): 148-9
3. Gursoy M, Haznedaroglu IC, Celik I, Sayinalp N, Ozcebe OI, Dundar SV "Agranulocytosis, plasmacytosis, and thrombocytosis followed by a leukemoid reaction due to acute acetaminophen toxicity." Ann Pharmacother 30 (1996): 762-5
4. Zimmerman HJ, Maddrey WC "Acetaminophen (paracetamol) hepatotoxicity with regular intake of alcohol: analysis of instances of therapeutic misadventure." Hepatology 22 (1995): 767-73
5. Nelson EB, Temple AR "Acetaminophen hepatotoxicity, fasting, and ethanol." JAMA 274 (1995): 301
6. Lee WM "Medical progress: drug-induced hepatotoxicity." N Engl J Med 333 (1995): 1118-27
7. Singer AJ, Carracio TR, Mofenson HC "The temporal profile of increased transaminase levels in patients with acetaminophen-induced liver dysfunction." Ann Emerg Med 26 (1995): 49-53
8. Perneger TV, Whelton PK, Klag MJ "Risk of kidney failure associated with the use of acetaminophen, aspirin, and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs." N Engl J Med 331 (1994): 1675-79
9. Shoenfeld Y, Shaklai M, Livni E, Pinkhas J "Thrombocytopenia from acetaminophen." N Engl J Med 303 (1980): 47
10. Filipe PL, Freitas JP, Decastro JC, Silva R "Drug eruption induced by acetaminophen in infectious mononucleosis." Int J Dermatol 34 (1995): 220-1
11. Kondo K, Inoue Y, Hamada H, Yokoyama A, Kohno N, Hiwada K "Acetaminophen-induced eosinophilic pneumonia." Chest 104 (1993): 291-2
12. Brown G "Acetaminophen-induced hypotension." Heart Lung 25 (1996): 137-40
It is possible that some side effects of Nodolor may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.


severe drowsiness or restless feeling, feeling like you might pass out; 


fast, slow, or uneven heart rate;


rapid breathing, weak or shallow breathing;


little or no urinating;


cold feeling; or


liver problems--nausea, upper stomach pain, itching, loss of appetite, dark urine, clay-colored stools, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes).




dizziness, drowsiness; or


upset stomach.


