Generic Name: norfloxacin
Applies to norfloxacin: oral tablet
As well as its needed effects, norfloxacin (the active ingredient contained in Noroxin) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking norfloxacin, check with your doctor immediately:
Some norfloxacin side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to norfloxacin: oral tablet
This drug was generally well tolerated and side effects were mild.  Side effects were reported in 6.5% of subjects receiving single doses and 3.6% of subjects receiving multiple doses.[Ref]
The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms may occur during or after antimicrobial treatment.Pseudomembranous colitis and pancreatitis have also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, abdominal crampingUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Abdominal pain, anal/rectal pain, constipation, diarrhea, dry mouth, dyspepsia/heartburn, flatulence, loose stools, vomiting, abdominal swelling, mouth ulcer, pruritus aniRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Pseudomembranous colitis, pancreatitisPostmarketing reports: StomatitisQuinolones:-Frequency not reported: Intestinal perforation[Ref]
Cases of sensory or sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy (affecting small and/or large axons) resulting in paresthesias, hypoesthesias, dysesthesias, and weakness have been reported.Seizures reported in association with this drug have occurred, generally in older patients.  A patient with myasthenia gravis had her condition deteriorate during 2 different courses of this drug.Paresthesia, polyneuropathy (including Guillain-Barre syndrome), tinnitus, and exacerbation of myasthenia gravis have also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Headache, dizzinessUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Tingling of the fingers, somnolence/drowsiness, bitter tasteRare (less than 0.1%): Peripheral sensory neuropathy/sensory axonal polyneuropathy, peripheral sensory motor neuropathy/sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy, paresthesia, polyneuropathy, Guillain-Barre syndrome, seizures, tinnitus, exacerbation of myasthenia gravisFrequency not reported: Dysesthesia, altered tastePostmarketing reports: Generalized seizures, convulsions, myoclonus, tremors, peripheral neuropathy (may be irreversible), ataxia, hypoesthesia, hearing loss, dysgeusia, hypertonia, dysarthria, dysphasiaQuinolones:-Postmarketing reports: Dysphasia[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Allergies/allergic reactionsRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactionsPostmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylactoid reactions, anaphylaxis, angioedema, dyspnea, vasculitis, urticaria, arthritis, arthralgia, myalgia, interstitial nephritis, DRESS syndrome)[Ref]
Interstitial nephritis has also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Rare (0.01% to 0.1%): Interstitial nephritisFrequency not reported: Decreased renal function, nephrotic syndrome (which has occurred in patients treated with high doses), increased BUN/serum urea, increased serum creatininePostmarketing reports: Renal failureQuinolones:-Frequency not reported: Renal calculi[Ref]
Hepatitis has also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Elevated ALT, elevated AST, cholestatic hepatitis, hepatitisFrequency not reported: Eosinophilic necrotizing granulomatous hepatitisPostmarketing reports: Jaundice (including cholestatic jaundice), elevated liver function tests, hepatic failure (including fatal cases)Quinolones:-Frequency not reported: Hepatic necrosis[Ref]
Eosinophilia was reported in 7.5% of 1 study population.  Leukopenia and neutropenia have been reported in up to 1% of patients.  Hemolytic anemia has sometimes been associated with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency.Leukopenia, neutropenia, hemolytic anemia, prothrombin time prolongation, and thrombocytopenia have also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Eosinophilia, decreased WBC, decreased neutrophil count, decreased platelet countUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Decreased hematocrit, decreased hemoglobin, increased eosinophils, leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, prothrombin time prolongationRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Hemolytic anemiaPostmarketing reports: AgranulocytosisQuinolones:-Postmarketing reports: Agranulocytosis, prothrombin time prolongation[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): RhabdomyolysisUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Bursitis, back painRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Tendinitis, tendosynovitis, myalgia/muscle pains, joint pains, joint inflammationVery rare (less than 0.01%): Tendon rupture (e.g., Achilles tendon)Frequency not reported: Bilateral arthritis of the anklesPostmarketing reports: Elevated creatine kinase, muscle spasms[Ref]
Quinolones, including this drug, have been associated with ruptures of the shoulder, hand, Achilles, and other tendons resulting in disability or requiring surgical repair.  Elderly patients and patients concomitantly using corticosteroids may be at increased risk.Renal transplant patients have an increased risk of Achilles tendinitis and rupture over the general population.  Quinolone use has been shown to increase that risk further in this population (12% in quinolone-treated patients versus 7% in patients not treated).There have been 23 reports of tendinitis submitted to the Australian Adverse Drug Reactions Committee (ADRAC) between 2006 and 2008, including reports of Achilles tendonitis, tendon rupture, and tendon pain and swelling.  The reports were primarily in male patients (15 cases) older than 56 years who used ciprofloxacin for 2 to 14 days.  In 19 of the reported cases, a fluoroquinolone (generally ciprofloxacin) was the primary suspect; however, details of concomitant serious medical conditions were not documented in most of the reports.Tendinitis and tendon rupture have also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Asthenia, elevated alkaline phosphataseUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Fever, fatigue, chest pain, foot or hand swelling, chills, edemaRare (0.01% to 0.1%): TirednessFrequency not reported: Weakness, elevated LDHQuinolones:-Postmarketing reports: Elevated serum triglycerides, elevated serum cholesterol, elevated serum potassium[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Rash, pruritus, hyperhidrosis, erythema, urticariaRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Petechiae, hemorrhagic bullae/papules with vasculitis, skin reactions, exfoliative dermatitis, toxic epidermal necrolysis (Lyell's syndrome), erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, photosensitivity, angioedemaFrequency not reported: Systemic contact dermatitisPostmarketing reports: Leukocytoclastic vasculitis, drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS syndrome), photosensitivity/phototoxicity reactions, periorbital erythemaQuinolones:-Frequency not reported: Erythema nodosum, photosensitivity (phototoxic reactions, photosensitization with vesiculation, redness, swelling, discoloration)[Ref]
Rash, toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, pruritus, and exfoliative dermatitis have also been reported during postmarketing experience.  Rash has been reported as the most common side effect during postmarketing experience.A 70-year-old male developed systemic contact dermatitis, an itchy papulopustular eruption from the thighs to the abdomen, after 3 days of therapy with this drug.  The patient was treated with prednisone for 15 days.  A patch test 1 month later resulted in a reaction to quinolone mix.Photosensitivity has been reported in patients extensively exposed to sunlight or sunbeds during ongoing therapy with quinolone-like agents.[Ref]
Crystalluria has occurred in patients taking doses greater than 1200 mg/day and whose urine pH was 7 to 7.8.Crystalluria and vaginal candidiasis have also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Increased urine proteinUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Dysmenorrhea, renal colic, crystalluriaRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Vaginal candidiasisFrequency not reported: Glycosuria, vaginal swellingPostmarketing reports: ProteinuriaQuinolones:-Postmarketing reports: Crystalluria, albuminuria, candiduria, cylindruria, hematuria, vaginal candidiasis[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Myocardial infarction, palpitationFrequency not reported: Tachycardia, ECG QT prolonged, cardiovascular collapsePostmarketing reports: Prolonged QTc interval, ventricular arrhythmia (including torsade de pointes)Quinolones:-Postmarketing reports: Postural hypotension[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Blurred visionRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Visual disturbance, increased lacrimationPostmarketing reports: Diplopia, uveitis, nystagmus, conjunctivitis, eye pain/irritation, hemophthalmiaQuinolones:-Postmarketing reports: Nystagmus, visual disturbances[Ref]
Visual disturbances have also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): AnorexiaRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Loss of appetitePostmarketing reports: DysglycemiaQuinolones:-Frequency not reported: Acidosis-Postmarketing reports: Symptomatic hypoglycemia, elevated blood glucose[Ref]
Quinolones:-Frequency not reported: Hiccough[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Anxiety, depression, insomnia, sleep disturbancesRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Mood changes, nervousness, irritability, euphoria, disorientation, hallucinations, confusion, psychic disturbances, psychotic reactionsQuinolones:-Frequency not reported: Manic reactions[Ref]
Psychic disturbances (including psychotic reactions) and confusion have also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
1. Wolfson JS, Hooper DC "Norfloxacin: a new targeted fluoroquinolone antimicrobial agent." Ann Intern Med 108 (1988): 238-51
2. "Norfloxacin (noroxin)." Med Lett Drugs Ther 29 (1987): 25-7
3. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
4. Walker RC, Wright AJ "The quinolones." Mayo Clin Proc 62 (1987): 1007-12
5. "Product Information. Noroxin (norfloxacin)." Merck & Co, Inc, West Point, PA. 
6. Sabbour MS, El Bokl MA, Osman LM "Experiences on the efficacy and safety of nalidixic acid, oxolinic acid, cinoxacin and norfloxacin in the treatment of urinary tract infections (UTI)." Infection 12 (1984): 377-80
7. Anonymous. "Prevention of bacterial infection in neutropenic patients with hematologic malignancies." Ann Intern Med 115 (1991): 7-12
8. The Urinary Tract Infection Study Group "Coordinated mulicenter study of norfloxacin versus trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole treatment of symptomatic urinary tract infection." J Infect Dis 155 (1987): 170-7
9. Ehrenpreis ED, Lievens MW, Craig RM "Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea after norfloxacin." J Clin Gastroenterol 12 (1990): 188-9
10. Waites KB, Canupp KC, DeVivo MJ "Efficacy and tolerance of norfloxacin in treatment of complicated urinary tract infection in outpatients with neurogenic bladder secondary to spinal cord injury." Urology 38 (1991): 589-96
11. Anastasio GD, Menscer D, Little JM "Norfloxacin and seizures." Ann Intern Med 109 (1988): 169-70
12. Rauser EH, Ariano RE, Anderson BA "Exacerbation of myasthenia gravis by norfloxacin." DICP 24 (1990): 207-8
13. Bjornsson E, Olsson R, Remotti H "Norfloxacin-induced eosinophilic necrotizing granulomatous hepatitis." Am J Gastroenterol 95 (2000): 3662-4
14. Roujeau JC, Kelly JP, Naldi L, et al. "Medication use and the risk of Stevens-Johnson syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis." N Engl J Med 333 (1995): 1600-7
15. Shelley ED, Shelley WB "The subcorneal pustular drug eruption: an example induced by norfloxacin." Cutis 42 (1988): 24-7
16. Ferguson J, Johnson BE "Clinical and laboratory studies of the photosensitizing potential of norfloxacin, a 4-quinolone broad-spectrum antibiotic." Br J Dermatol 128 (1993): 285-95
17. Alonso MD, Martin JA, Quirce S, Davila I, Lezaun A, Sanchez Cano M "Fixed eruption caused by ciprofloxacin with cross-sensitivity to norfloxacin." Allergy 48 (1993): 296-7
18. Sahin MT,  Ozturkcan S,  Inanir I,  Filiz EE "Norfloxacin-induced toxic epidermal necrolysis." Ann Pharmacother 39 (2005): 768-70
19. Boelaert J, de Jaegere PP, Daneels R, Schurgers M, Gordts B "Case report of renal failure during norfloxacin therapy." Clin Nephrol 25 (1986): 272
20. Hanson B, Dhondt A, Depierreux M, Lustman F "Nephrotic syndrome after norfloxacin." Nephron 74 (1996): 446
21. Hestin D, Hanesse B, Frimat L, Renaudin JM, Netter P, Kessler M "Norfloxacin-induced nephrotic syndrome." Lancet 345 (1995): 732-3
22. Lucena MI, Andrade RJ, SanchezMartinez H, PerezSerrano JM, GomezOutes A "Norfloxacin-induced cholestatic jaundice." Am J Gastroenterol 93 (1998): 2309-11
23. Davoren P, Mainstone K "Norfloxacin-induced hepatitis." Med J Aust 159 (1993): 423,
24. Lopez-Navidad A, Domingo P, Cadafalch J, Farrerons J "Norfloxacin-induced hepatotoxicity." J Hepatol 11 (1990): 277-8
25. RomeroGomez M, Garcia ES, Fernandez MC "Norfloxacin-induced acute cholestatic hepatitis in a patient with alcoholic liver cirrhosis." Am J Gastroenterol 94 (1999): 2324-5
26. Patoia L, Guerciolini R, Menichetti F, Bucaneve G, Del Favero A "Norfloxacin and neutropenia." Ann Intern Med 107 (1987): 788-9
27. Kaplan DS "Norfloxacin and protime elevation." Am J Gastroenterol 85 (1990): 901
28. Mofredj A,  Boudjema H,  Cadranel JF "Norfloxacin-induced eosinophilia in a cirrhotic patient." Ann Pharmacother 36 (2002): 1107-8
29. Donck JB, Segaert MF, Vanrenterghem YF "Fluoroquinolones and achilles tendinopathy in renal transplant recipients." Transplantation 58 (1994): 736-7
30. Jeandel C, Manciaux MA, Bannwarth B, et al "Arthritis induced by norfloxacin." J Rheumatol 16 (1989): 560-1
31. Khaliq Y,  Zhanel GG "Fluoroquinolone-Associated Tendinopathy: A Critical Review of the Literature." Clin Infect Dis 36 (2003): 1404-1410
32. Guis S,  Jouglard J,  Kozak-Ribbens G, et al. "Malignant hyperthermia susceptibility revealed by myalgia and rhabdomyolysis during fluoroquinolone treatment." J Rheumatol 28 (2001): 1405-6
33. Adverse Drug Reactions Advisory Committee (ADRAC) and the Adverse Drug Reactions Unit of the TGA "Australian Adverse Drug Reactions Bulletin. Available from: URL: http://www.tga.gov.au/adr/aadrb/aadr0810.htm."   ([2008 Oct]):
34. Terry JB "Norfloxacin induced arthralgia." J Rheumatol 22 (1995): 793-4
35. Silvestre JF, Alfonso R, Moragon M, Ramon R, Botella R "Systemic contact dermatitis due to norfloxacin with a positive patch test to quinoline mix." Contact Dermatitis 39 (1998): 83
It is possible that some side effects of Noroxin may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Chest pain or discomfort
chills
diarrhea
discouragement
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
feeling sad or empty
fever
flushing or redness of the skin
hives or welts, itching, or skin rash
increased sweating
irritability
irritation or soreness of the mouth
itching of the rectal area
lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
nausea
pain and inflammation at the joints
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
redness of the skin
shortness of breath
sweating
swelling of the foot or hand
swelling of the stomach
tingling of the fingers
tiredness
trouble with concentrating
trouble with sleeping
unusually warm skin
vomiting


Abdominal or stomach cramps or tenderness
anxiety
back, leg, or stomach pains
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating
blood in the urine or stools
blurred vision
bone pain
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
clay-colored stools
cold sweats
constipation
cool, pale skin
cough or hoarseness
cracks in the skin
dark-colored urine
decreased frequency or amount of urine
diarrhea, watery and severe, which may also be bloody
difficulty with breathing, chewing, swallowing, or talking
difficulty with moving
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
double vision
drooping eyelids
dry mouth
dry skin
false sense of well-being
fever with or without chills
fruit-like breath odor
general body swelling
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
greatly decreased frequency of urination or amount of urine
headache
inability to move the arms and legs
increased blood pressure
increased hunger
increased sensitivity of the skin to sunlight
increased thirst
increased urination
indigestion
irregular or slow heart rate
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
light-colored stools
loss of heat from the body
lower back or side pain
mood or mental changes
mood swings
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pain or stiffness
muscle weakness
nightmares
nosebleeds
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
pain or burning while urinating
pain, inflammation, or swelling in the calves, shoulders, or hands
pain, swelling, or redness in the joints
painful or difficult urination
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
personality changes
pinpoint red spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
red, swollen skin
scaly skin
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
seizures
severe sunburn
severe tiredness
shakiness and unsteady walk
slurred speech
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
sores, welting, or blisters
stomach pain, continuing
sudden decrease in the amount of urine
sudden numbness and weakness in the arms and legs
swelling of the face, fingers, or lower legs
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
swollen glands
tightness in the chest
unexplained weight loss
unpleasant breath odor
unsteadiness, awkwardness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination
unusual behavior, such as disorientation to time or place, failure to recognize people, hyperactivity, or restlessness
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight loss
vomiting of blood
weakness in the arms, hands, legs, or feet
weight gain
yellowing of the eyes or skin


Lack or loss of strength


Acid or sour stomach
belching
bitter taste
cramps
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
full feeling
heartburn
heavy bleeding
pain
passing gas
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
weight loss


Change in taste
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
hearing loss
itching of the vagina or outside genitals
loss of taste
pain during sexual intercourse
seeing double
thick, white curd-like vaginal discharge without odor or with mild odor
uncontrolled eye movements

