As well as its needed effects, disopyramide (the active ingredient contained in Norpace CR) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking disopyramide, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some disopyramide side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Gastrointestinal side effects including anticholinergic side effects have been the most common cause of gastrointestinal complaints.  Dry mouth (40%), constipation (11%) and nausea, pain/bloating/gas (3% to 9%) have been reported.  Anorexia, diarrhea, and vomiting have occurred.  Two cases of paralytic ileus have been reported.  A case of oral mucosal ulceration has been associated with the (unapproved) sublingual use of disopyramide (the active ingredient contained in Norpace CR) 
Cardiovascular side effects have included arrhythmias, conduction disturbances, hypotension, and heart failure.  Like other class I antiarrhythmic agents, disopyramide (the active ingredient contained in Norpace CR) can be proarrhythmic and decrease cardiac contractility.  The risk of proarrhythmias may be increased in patients with left ventricular dysfunction.  Various ventricular tachyarrhythmias accompanied by disopyramide-induced QT interval prolongation, including ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation and torsades de pointes, have been associated with usual therapeutic doses.  Evidence of QRS segment or QT widening are indications to either reduce the dose or stop the drug.  Conduction disturbances, including AV block, have occurred, and are more likely in patients with preexisting conduction disorders.
Contributing factors towards the development of torsades de pointes included female gender, hypokalemia, underlying arrhythmias, mitral valve abnormalities, or congestive heart failure.Hypotension, pulmonary edema, and frank cardiogenic shock have been associated with both the oral and intravenous administration of disopyramide.  Most affected patients had underlying congestive heart failure.
A patient developed a severe sensory-motor polyneuropathy after receiving disopyramide (the active ingredient contained in Norpace CR) 500 mg daily for 4 years.  Symptoms did not respond to corticosteroids, but did resolve a few months after withdrawal of disopyramide.
Nervous system side effects including anticholinergic symptoms have been reported.  Other nervous system side effects have been rare, and included nervousness, insomnia, depression, and peripheral paresthesia or neuropathy.
Genitourinary side effects were related to anticholinergic properties of the drug.  Urinary hesitancy (10% to 40%) has occurred.  Urinary retention, frequency, and urgency has been reported in up to 9% of patients.  Recommended management consisted of lowering the dose, discontinuing the drug, or if necessary, using a cholinergic drug to counteract this effect.  Sexual impotence has been reported.
Hepatic side effects including reversible, dose-independent intrahepatic cholestasis, hepatocellular damage, and nonspecific hepatic inflammatory changes have been reported in rare cases where venous congestion secondary to heart failure was reasonably excluded.  Manifestations of liver dysfunction usually appeared during the first week of treatment (malaise, dark urine) and resolved promptly upon discontinuation of the drug.  In one review, 20 cases were reported during a 14-year period.
Endocrine side effect have included hypoglycemia due to stimulation of insulin secretion and rare cases of hypokalemia and dyslipidemia.  Hypoglycemia can occur in nondiabetic patients at therapeutic plasma disopyramide (the active ingredient contained in Norpace CR) levels.
Elevated insulin levels have been measured during disopyramide-associated hypoglycemic episodes.  Data have revealed that disopyramide blocks pancreatic ATP-sensitive potassium channels, enhancing insulin release.  Other factors such as increased peripheral utilization of glucose or decreased glycogenolysis have not been fully evaluated.
Immunologic side effects, such as the production of antinuclear antibodies and other immunologically-mediated changes associated with other class 1 antiarrhythmic agents, do not appear to occur during disopyramide (the active ingredient contained in Norpace CR) therapy.
Dermatologic reactions have been reported rarely, usually presenting as a rash or pruritus.
Ocular side effects of blurred vision (3% to 9%) have been associated with the anticholinergic effects of disopyramide (the active ingredient contained in Norpace CR) 
General body symptoms of fatigue, muscle weakness, malaise, and aches/pains have been reported in 3% to 9% of patients administered disopyramide (the active ingredient contained in Norpace CR)   Rarely, fever has occurred.
Psychiatric side effects including reversible psychiatric symptoms of psychosis have been reported rarely.
Hematologic adverse effects of thrombocytopenia, and reversible agranulocytosis have occurred rarely.
Gynecomastia has been reported.
Respiratory difficulty has been reported rarely.
It is possible that some side effects of Norpace CR may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Dizziness, feeling of faintness
fainting 
heartbeat sensations
 shortness of breath
unusual tiredness
Chest pain
fast or slow heartbeat, rapid weight gain, swelling of feet or lower legs
 lightheadedness
rash and/or itching
Enlargement of breasts in men
fever 
mental depression
nosebleeds or bleeding gums
sore throat and fever
yellow eyes or skin
Anxious feeling
chills
cold sweats
confusion
cool, pale skin
drowsiness
fast heartbeat
headache
hunger (excessive)
nausea
nervousness
shakiness
unsteady walk
unusual tiredness or weakness
Blurred vision
constipation
dry eyes, mouth, nose, or throat
problems with urination
Bloating or stomach pain
diarrhea
headache
impotence
 loss of appetite
muscle weakness
 nausea
nervousness
trouble in sleeping