Common side effects of Novolog include: hypoglycemia.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, insulin aspart (the active ingredient contained in Novolog) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Adverse reactions observed have included hypoglycemia, allergic reactions, local injection site reactions, lipodystrophy, rash, and pruritus.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included both local and systemic reactions.  Anaphylaxis has been reported.  Local reactions have presented as erythema, local edema, and pruritus at the injection site.  Most minor reactions to insulin at the injection site resolve in a few days to a few weeks.  Generalized allergy to insulin may present as a whole body rash, dyspnea, wheezing, hypotension, tachycardia, or diaphoresis.  In clinical trials, allergic reactions were reported in 0.7% (10/1394) patients receiving insulin aspart (the active ingredient contained in Novolog) 
Very rare (less than 0.01%): AnaphylaxisFrequency not reported: Allergic reactions
Weight gain has been reported with insulin therapy and has been attributed to the anabolic effects of insulin and the decrease in glucosuria.
Very common (10% or more): HypoglycemiaFrequency not reported: Weight gain
Common (1% to 10%): Chest painUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Peripheral edema
Insulin may cause sodium retention and edema, especially as metabolic control is improving.
Long-term use of insulin may cause lipodystrophy at the site of repeated injection.  Lipodystrophy includes lipohypertrophy, a thickening of adipose tissue, and lipoatrophy, thinning of adipose tissue.
Common (1% to 10%): Skin disorderUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Urticaria, rash Frequency not reported: Lipodystrophy including lipohypertrophy and lipoatrophy
Common (1% to 10%): Onychomycosis Frequency not reported: Anti-insulin antibody titers
The clinical significance of the development of these antibody titers is unknown.
Rapid improvement in glucose control has been associated with a transitory, reversible ophthalmologic refraction disorder and worsening of diabetic retinopathy.  However, long-term glycemic control decreases the risk of diabetic retinopathy.
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Refraction disorder, worsening of diabetic retinopathy
Rapid improvement in glucose control has been associated with a transitory, reversible acute painful peripheral neuropathy.  However, long-term glycemic control decreases the risk.
Very common (10% or more): Headache (up to 12%)Common (1% to 10%): Hyporeflexia, sensory disturbanceRare (less than 0.1%): Painful peripheral neuropathy
Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, diarrhea, abdominal pain
Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infection
It is possible that some side effects of Novolog may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Anxious feeling
behavior change similar to being drunk
blurred vision
cold sweats
confusion
convulsions (seizures)
depression
difficulty with thinking
dizziness or lightheadedness
drowsiness
excessive hunger
fast heartbeat
headache
irritability or abnormal behavior
nightmares
restless sleep
shakiness
slurred speech
tingling in the hands, feet, lips, or tongue
Depression of the skin at the place of injection
dryness of the mouth
fast or weak pulse
feeling of pressure, itching, redness, soreness, stinging, swelling, or tingling at the place of injection
increased thirst
irregular heartbeat
loss of appetite
mood or mental changes
muscle cramps or pain
nausea or vomiting
shortness of breath
skin rash or itching over the whole body
sweating
thickening of the skin at the place of injection
unusual tiredness or weakness
wheezing