More frequent side effects include: injection site reaction.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, mepolizumab (the active ingredient contained in Nucala) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Some mepolizumab side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The more commonly reported side effects were headache, injection site reactions, and back pain.
Dizziness occurred in at least 3% of patients treated with this drug in a controlled, long-term clinical study.
Very common (10% or more): Headache (up to 19%)Frequency not reported: Dizziness
Common (1% to 10%): Systemic non-allergic/administration-related reactions (including rash, flushing, myalgia), systemic/hypersensitivity reactions (including rash, pruritus, headache, myalgia)Frequency not reported: Allergic rhinitis, angioedema, urticaria
Many systemic reactions occurred on the day of dosing.  Systemic reactions occurred in 10% of patients treated with this drug compared to 7% of placebo-treated patients.  Non-allergic reactions occurred in 2% of patients given this drug versus 3% of patients with placebo; allergic systemic reactions occurred in 1% and 2% of patients given this drug or placebo, respectively.Allergic rhinitis occurred in at least 3% of patients treated with this drug in a controlled, long-term clinical study.
Common (1% to 10%): Injection site reactions (e.g., pain, swelling, erythema, itching, burning)
Injection site reactions occurred in 8% and 3% of patients given this drug or placebo, respectively.  The reactions more commonly occurred within the first 3 injections, with a decrease in frequency on subsequent injections.
In a clinical trial, 6% of patients developed anti-mepolizumab (the active ingredient contained in Nucala) antibodies; these antibodies were shown to slightly increase drug clearance, but the clinical relevance is unknown.Viral infection occurred in at least 3% of patients treated with this drug in a controlled, long-term clinical study.
Common (1% to 10%): Influenza, anti-mepolizumab antibody formationFrequency not reported: Viral infection
Common (1% to 10%): Pruritus, eczemaFrequency not reported: Rash, flushing, herpes zoster reaction
Rash and herpes zoster occurred in at least 3% of patients treated with this drug in a controlled, long-term clinical study.
Common (1% to 10%): Back pain, muscle spasmsFrequency not reported: Musculoskeletal pain, myalgia
Musculoskeletal pain occurred in at least 3% of patients treated with this drug in a controlled, long-term clinical study.
Gastroenteritis, abdominal pain, nausea, toothache, and vomiting occurred in at least 3% of patients treated with this drug in a controlled, long-term clinical study.
Common (1% to 10%): Upper abdominal painFrequency not reported: Gastroenteritis, abdominal pain, nausea, toothache, vomiting
Common (1% to 10%): Fatigue, pyrexiaFrequency not reported: Asthenia, ear infection
Asthenia, ear infection, and pyrexia occurred in at least 3% of patients treated with this drug in a controlled, long-term clinical study.
Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infection
Bronchitis, dyspnea, lower respiratory tract infection, nasal congestion, nasopharyngitis, pharyngitis, and viral respiratory tract infection occurred in at least 3% of patients treated with this drug in a controlled, long-term clinical study.
Common (1% to 10%): Lower respiratory tract infection, pharyngitis, nasal congestionFrequency not reported: Bronchitis, dyspnea, nasopharyngitis, viral respiratory tract infection, bronchospasm
Frequency not reported: Hypotension
Frequency not reported: Cystitis
Cystitis occurred in at least 3% of patients treated with this drug in a controlled, long-term clinical study.
It is possible that some side effects of Nucala may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Blurred vision
confusion
cough
difficulty with breathing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
hives or welts, itching, or skin rash
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
noisy breathing
painful blisters on the trunk of the body
redness of the skin
sweating
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site
headache
Back pain
bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
chills
cough
diarrhea
difficult, burning, or painful urination
fever
frequent urge to urinate
general feeling of discomfort or illness
joint pain
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
muscle aches and pains
muscle spasms
nausea
runny nose
shivering
skin rash, encrusted, scaly, and oozing
sore throat
sweating
trouble sleeping
upper abdominal or stomach pain
vomiting