Generic Name: nystatin topical
Applies to nystatin topical: vaginal cream, vaginal tablet
Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, nystatin topical (the active ingredient contained in Nyamyc) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking nystatin topical, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:


Applies to nystatin topical: topical cream, topical kit, topical ointment, topical powder, vaginal tablet
Dermatologic side effects associated with nystatin topical (the active ingredient contained in Nyamyc) powder, cream, and ointment have included skin irritation, burning, itching, rash, eczema, and pain on application in less than 0.1% of patients.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects associated with nystatin vaginal tablets have included vaginal irritation, burning, and itching.  At least one case of severe vulvovaginitis has also been reported.[Ref]
A 64-year-old female experienced severe vulvovaginitis while receiving intravaginal nystatin therapy for Candida glabrata infection.  She was administered nystatin vaginal tablets, 100,000 units twice daily for 14 days.  She returned immediately after having completed the course complaining of intense skin rash in the vulvar area accompanied by severe irritation, burning, and itching.  Therapy with a hydrocortisone cream and intramuscular betamethasone dipropionate was initiated.  A week later, she had marked improvement with clearing of the vulvovaginal erythema and edema.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects associated with nystatin topical (the active ingredient contained in Nyamyc) powder, cream, and ointment have included allergic reactions and allergic contact dermatitis in less than 0.1% of patients.  Stevens-Johnson syndrome has also been reported.
1. Wasilewski C Jr "Allergic contact dermatitis from nystatin." Arch Dermatol 102 (1970): 216-7
2. Quirce S, Parra F, Lazaro M, Gomez MI, Sanchez Cano M "Generalized dermatitis due to oral nystatin." Contact Dermatitis 25 (1991): 197-8
3. Garty BZ "Stevens-Johnson syndrome associated with nystatin treatment." Arch Dermatol 127 (1991): 741-2
4. "Product Information. Mycostatin Pastilles (nystatin)." Ernest Jackson & Co., Ltd., Crediton, Devon, England,   . 
5. Hills RJ, Ive FA "Contact sensitivity to nystatin in Timodine." Contact Dermatitis 28 (1993): 48
6. "Product Information. Mycostatin Cream, Mycostatin Topical Powder (nystatin)." Westwood Squibb Pharmaceutical Corporation, Eatontown, NJ. 
7. Lang E, Goos M "Combined allergy to tolnaftate and nystatin." Contact Dermatitis 12 (1985): 182
8. de Groot AC, Conemans JM "Nystatin allergy. Petrolatum is not the optimal vehicle for patch testing." Dermatol Clin 8 (1990): 153-5
9. Wasilewski C Jr "Allergic contact dermatitis from nystatin." Arch Dermatol 104 (1971): 437
It is possible that some side effects of Nyamyc may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
topical cream, topical ointment, topical powder

Vaginal burning or itching not present before use of this medicine 

