As well as its needed effects, peginesatide (the active ingredient contained in Omontys) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Some peginesatide side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypotension (14.2%), hypertension (13.2%), and procedural hypotension (10.9%).
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea (18.4%), nausea (17.4%), and vomiting (15.3%).
General side effects have included pyrexia (12.2%).
Immunologic side effects have included the development of peginesatide (the active ingredient contained in Omontys) specific antibodies (1.2%).
Metabolic side effects have included hyperkalemia (11.4%).
Musculoskeletal side effects have included muscle spasms (15.3%), pain in extremity (10.9%), back pain (10.9%), and arthralgia (10.7%).
Nervous system side effects have included headache (15.4%).
Other side effects have included arteriovenous fistula site complication (16.1%).
Respiratory side effects have included dyspnea (18.4%), cough (15.9%), and upper respiratory infection (11.0%).
Hypersensitivity side effects have included postmarketing reports of serious allergic reactions including fatal reactions (0.02%).
It is possible that some side effects of Omontys may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal or stomach pain
blurred vision
body aches or pain
chills
confusion
cough
difficulty with breathing
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
ear congestion
fever
headache
irregular heartbeat
loss of voice
nasal congestion
nausea or vomiting
nervousness
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
pounding in the ears
runny nose
shortness of breath
slow or fast heartbeat
sneezing
sore throat
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness
weakness or heaviness of the legs
Back pain
chest tightness
chills
difficulty with swallowing
flushing
hives
itching
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
seizures
skin rash
trouble breathing
weakness
Diarrhea
difficulty with moving
muscle pain or stiffness
muscle spasms
pain in the arms or legs
pain in the joints