Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, orphenadrine may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking orphenadrine, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking orphenadrine, get emergency help immediately:
Some orphenadrine side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Nervous system side effects have included headache, light-headedness, dizziness, drowsiness, syncope and tremor.  Infrequently, elderly patients have experienced mental confusion.
Ocular side effects have included blurred vision, dilatation of pupils, and increased ocular tension.
Cardiovascular side effects have included tachycardia and palpitations.
Genitourinary side effects have included urinary hesitancy and retention.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included dry mouth, nausea, vomiting, and gastric irritation.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included weakness.
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus, and rarely, urticaria and other dermatosis.
Psychiatric side effects have included hallucinations and agitation.
Hematologic side effects have included very rare cases of aplastic anemia, however, no causal relationship has been established.
It is possible that some side effects of orphenadrine may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
injection solution
Chest pain
chills
cough
fever
hallucinations (seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there)
headache
shortness of breath, troubled breathing, tightness in chest, and/or wheezing
skin rash, hives, itching, or redness
sores, ulcers, or white spots on lips or in mouth
swollen and/or painful glands
unusual bruising or bleeding
unusual tiredness or weakness
Abdominal or stomach pain
diarrhea
fainting
fast, pounding irregular heartbeat or pulse
glaucoma
joint or muscle pain
nausea
numbness or tingling of face, hands, or feet
redness and soreness of eyes
swelling of feet or lower legs
vomiting
Blurred vision
confusion, delirium, or hallucinations
constipation
difficult urination
drowsiness
dry eyes, mouth, nose, or throat
eye pain
flushing or redness of face
troubled breathing
Dizziness or lightheadedness 
excitement, irritability, nervousness, or restlessness
headache
muscle weakness
unusually large pupils of eyes
Anxiety
deep or fast breathing with dizziness
itching skin
mental confusion
numbness of feet, hands and around mouth
trembling or shaking of hands or feet shakiness in legs, arms, hands, or feet