Commonly reported side effects of oseltamivir include: nausea and vomiting. Other side effects include: abdominal pain.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, oseltamivir may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking oseltamivir, check with your doctor immediately:
Some oseltamivir side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most common side effects were nausea and vomiting.The most common side effects reported with this drug during studies for the treatment of influenza were nausea, vomiting, headache, bronchitis, insomnia, and vertigo.  Nausea and vomiting were generally mild to moderate in severity and usually occurred on the first 2 days of therapy.  Less than 1% of patients discontinued this drug early due to nausea and vomiting.Side effects in prophylaxis studies were similar to those in treatment studies, most commonly nausea, vomiting, headache, and pain.  Side effects that occurred more frequently than in treatment studies were aches and pains, rhinorrhea, dyspepsia, and upper respiratory tract infections.
Very common (10% or more): Headache (up to 18%)Common (1% to 10%): Dizziness, vertigoFrequency not reported: DrowsinessPostmarketing reports: Seizure/convulsion
Side effects with similar or higher incidence among placebo patients included dizziness and vertigo.
Very common (10% or more): NauseaCommon (1% to 10%): Nausea (without vomiting), vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, upper abdominal pain, dyspepsiaFrequency not reported: Pseudomembranous colitisPostmarketing reports: Gastrointestinal bleeding, hemorrhagic colitis
Side effects with similar or higher incidence among placebo patients included diarrhea, abdominal pain, upper abdominal pain, and dyspepsia.
Common (1% to 10%): Nasal congestion, cough, sore throat, bronchitis, nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infections, influenza, rhinorrhea, sinusitisFrequency not reported: Pneumonia, peritonsillar abscess, congestion, rhinitis, dry sore throat, epistaxis, asthma, aggravated asthma
Side effects with similar or higher incidence among placebo patients included cough, nasal congestion, sore throat, rhinorrhea, bronchitis, sinusitis, nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infections, and influenza.
Common (1% to 10%): InsomniaFrequency not reported: ManiaPostmarketing reports: Abnormal behavior, delirium, altered level of consciousness, confusion, delusions, hallucinations, agitation, anxiety, nightmares, self-injury
Influenza can be associated with various neurologic and behavioral symptoms (including hallucinations, delirium, abnormal behavior), with fatal outcomes in some cases; such events may occur with encephalitis or encephalopathy but can occur without obvious severe disease.  There are postmarketing reports (mostly in Japan) of delirium and abnormal behavior leading to injury, with fatal outcomes in some cases, in influenza patients using this drug.  Although frequency is unknown, based on usage, these events appear uncommon.  These events were primarily reported in pediatric patients, often with abrupt onset and rapid resolution.  The contribution of this drug to such events has not been established.Side effects with similar or higher incidence among placebo patients included insomnia.
Side effects with similar or higher incidence among placebo patients included fatigue, pyrexia, influenza-like illness, and pain in limb.
Common (1% to 10%): Fatigue, pain, pyrexia, influenza-like illness, pain in limb, otitis media, earacheUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Tympanic membrane disorderFrequency not reported: Humerus fracture, malaise, sepsis, facial edema, ear disorder, accidental injuryPostmarketing reports: Hypothermia
Side effects with similar or higher incidence among placebo patients included herpes simplex.
Common (1% to 10%): Herpes simplexUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Dermatitis (including allergic and atopic dermatitis)Rare (less than 0.1%): Angioneurotic edemaPostmarketing reports: Rash, urticaria, eczema, serious skin reactions, toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme
Common (1% to 10%): Back pain, arthralgia, myalgia
Side effects with similar or higher incidence among placebo patients included back pain, arthralgia, and myalgia.
Side effects with similar or higher incidence among placebo patients included dysmenorrhea.
Common (1% to 10%): Dysmenorrhea
Common (1% to 10%): Conjunctivitis (including red eyes, eye discharge, eye pain)Rare (less than 0.1%): Visual disturbances
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Elevated liver enzymesRare (less than 0.1%): Hepatic failure, fulminant hepatitis (including fatalities)Frequency not reported: Hepatic function disorder, jaundicePostmarketing reports: Hepatitis, abnormal liver function tests
Postmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., allergic skin reactions), allergy, anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions, swelling of the face or tongue
Frequency not reported: Unstable angina, sudden cardiopulmonary arrestPostmarketing reports: Cardiac arrhythmia
Frequency not reported: HyperglycemiaPostmarketing reports: Aggravation of diabetes
Frequency not reported: Anemia, pancytopenia, lymphadenopathyPostmarketing reports: Thrombocytopenia
It is possible that some side effects of oseltamivir may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Phlegm-producing cough
wheezing
Abdominal or stomach cramps or tenderness
arm, back, or jaw pain
bloating
chest pain or discomfort
diarrhea, watery and severe, which may also be bloody
drooling
facial swelling
fast or irregular heartbeat
hoarseness
increased thirst
pain
shortness of breath
unusual weight loss
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
convulsions (seizures)
dark urine
difficulty with swallowing
fainting
fast, slow, or irregular heartbeat
hives or welts
itching, puffiness, or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
joint or muscle pain
light-colored stools
loss of bladder control
loss of consciousness
muscle spasm or jerking of all extremities
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
skin rash or itching over the entire body
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
sweating
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
yellow eyes and skin
Diarrhea
nausea
vomiting
Abdominal or stomach pain
bloody nose or unexplained nosebleeds (occurs mainly in children)
burning, dry, or itching eyes (mainly in children)
dizziness
ear disorder (occurs mainly in children)
excessive tearing of the eyes (mainly in children)
redness, pain, or swelling of the eye or eyelid (mainly in children)
trouble with sleeping
Pale skin
troubled breathing
unusual bleeding or bruising
blurred vision
cracked, dry, or scaly skin
dry mouth
flushed, dry skin
mood or mental changes
skin rash that is encrusted, scaly, and oozing