More frequently reported side effects include: endometrial hyperplasia and hot flash.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to ospemifene: oral tablet
As well as its needed effects, ospemifene may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking ospemifene, check with your doctor immediately:
Some ospemifene side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to ospemifene: oral tablet
Common (1% to 10%): Hot flashesUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Hemorrhagic stroke, deep vein thrombosisRare (less than 0.1%): Thromboembolic stroke, myocardial infarction[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): HyperhidrosisPostmarketing reports: Rash, rash erythematous, rash generalized, pruritus, urticaria[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Vaginal discharge, genital discharge, proliferative endometrium, endometrial thickeningUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Uterine polypsRare (less than 0.1%): Simple hyperplasia without atypia[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Muscle spasms[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Allergic conditions including hypersensitivity, angioedema
1. "Product Information. Osphena (ospemifene)." Shionogi USA Inc, Florham Park, NJ. 
It is possible that some side effects of ospemifene may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Change in vaginal discharge
pain or feeling of pressure in the pelvis
vaginal bleeding


Anxiety
chest pain
confusion
cough
difficulty with speaking
dizziness or lightheadedness
double vision
fainting
fast heartbeat
headache
inability to move the arms, legs, or facial muscles
inability to speak
pain, redness, or swelling in the arm or leg
slow speech
sudden shortness of breath or troubled breathing


Chest discomfort
nausea
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
shortness of breath
sweating
vomiting


Feeling of warmth
increased sweating
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest


Muscle spasms
white or brownish vaginal discharge

