Common side effects of Otezla include: weight loss. Other side effects include: diarrhea, headache, and nausea.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, apremilast (the active ingredient contained in Otezla) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Some apremilast side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most commonly reported side effects included diarrhea, headache, and nausea.
Frequency not reported: Hypersensitivity
Common (1% to 10%): Diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, upper abdominal painFrequency not reported: Frequent bowel movement, gastroesophageal reflux disease, dyspepsia
Common (1% to 10%): Upper respiratory tract infection, nasopharyngitisFrequency not reported: Cough
Frequency not reported: Rash
Frequency not reported: Weight decrease, decreased appetite
Common (1% to 10%): HeadacheFrequency not reported: Migraine
It is possible that some side effects of Otezla may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Changes in behavior
discouragement
feeling sad or empty
irritability
lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
thoughts of killing oneself
tiredness
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
Fast heartbeat
fever
hives, itching, or rash
hoarseness
irritation
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
redness of the skin
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, hands, or feet
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing or swallowing
weight loss
Body aches or pain
chills
cough
diarrhea
ear congestion
headache
headache, severe and throbbing
loss of voice
nausea
sneezing
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
Acid or sour stomach
back pain
belching
burning, itching, pain in the hairy areas, pus at the root of the hair
decreased appetite
heartburn
indigestion
muscle aches
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
upper abdominal or stomach pain
vomiting