Generic Name: chorionic gonadotropin (hcg)
Applies to chorionic gonadotropin (hcg): powder for solution, solution
As well as its needed effects, chorionic gonadotropin (hcg) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking chorionic gonadotropin (hcg), check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some chorionic gonadotropin (hcg) side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
After you stop taking this drug, it is possible that you may still experience side effects that need medical attention. If you notice any of the following side effects check with your doctor immediately:


Applies to chorionic gonadotropin (hcg): injectable powder for injection, intramuscular powder for injection, subcutaneous powder for injection, subcutaneous solution
General side effects have included headache, irritability, restlessness, fatigue, and edema.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included precocious puberty and gynecomastia.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects have included depression.[Ref]
Local side effects have included pain at the site of injection.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included isolated cases of allergic reactions, manifesting mainly as mild reversible skin rashes.  Postmarketing reports have included anaphylactic reactions.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included the occurrence of arterial thromboembolism.
1. "Product Information. Novarel (chorionic gonadotropin (HCG))." Ferring Pharmaceuticals Inc, Tarrytown, NY. 
It is possible that some side effects of Ovidrel may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Bloating (mild)
stomach or pelvic pain 


Abdominal or stomach pain (severe)
 bloating (moderate to severe)
decreased amount of urine
feeling of indigestion
 nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea (continuing or severe)
 pelvic pain (severe)
shortness of breath
swelling of feet or lower legs
weight gain (rapid)


Acne
enlargement of penis and testes 
growth of pubic hair
 increase in height (rapid)


difficult or labored breathing 
difficulty breathing
 flushing of skin
hives or welts
 itching of skin
large, hive-like swelling on face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, sex organs
pain in chest, groin, or legs, especially the calves
redness of skin
severe, sudden headache 
skin rash
slurred speech 
sudden loss of coordination
 sudden, severe weakness or numbness in arm or leg
 sudden, unexplained shortness of breath
tightness in chest
unusually warm skin
 vision changes
wheezing


Discouragement
enlargement of breasts 
feeling sad or empty
 headache
irritability
 lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
pain at place of injection
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
 tiredness


Abdominal or stomach pain (severe)
 bloating (moderate to severe)
decreased amount of urine
feeling of indigestion
 nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea (continuing or severe)
 pelvic pain (severe)
shortness of breath
weight gain (rapid)

