Generic Name: oxiconazole topical
Applies to oxiconazole topical: topical cream, topical lotion
As well as its needed effects, oxiconazole topical (the active ingredient contained in Oxistat) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking oxiconazole topical, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some oxiconazole topical side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to oxiconazole topical: topical cream, topical lotion
Cream:-Common (1% to 10%): Pruritus, burning-Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Irritation, allergic contact dermatitis, folliculitis, erythema, papules, fissure, maceration, rashLotion:-Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Burning, pruritus, scaling, dyshidrotic eczema[Ref]
Cream:-Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Stinging, nodulesLotion:-Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Stinging, pain[Ref]
Lotion:-Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Tingling[Ref]
1. Jegasothy BV, Pakes GE "Oxiconazole nitrate: pharmacology, efficacy, and safety of a new imidazole antifungal agent." Clin Ther 13 (1991): 126-41
2. Raulin C, Frosch PJ "Contact allergy to oxiconazole." Contact Dermatitis 16 (1987): 39-40
3. "Product Information. Oxistat (oxiconazole)." Glaxo Wellcome, Research Triangle Park, NC. 
4. Ramelet AA, Walker-Nasir E "One daily application of oxiconazole cream is sufficient for treating dermatomycoses." Dermatologica 175 (1987): 293-5
It is possible that some side effects of Oxistat may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Burning
itching


Blistering, crusting, dryness, or flaking of skin
 scaling
severe redness, soreness, or swelling of skin
burning, itching, and pain in hairy areas
pus at root of hair
 skin irritation


Pain
skin rash
 tingling
stinging

