Generic Name: hydrocodone / pseudoephedrine
Applies to hydrocodone / pseudoephedrine: oral liquid, oral solution, oral syrup, oral tablet
As well as its needed effects, hydrocodone / pseudoephedrine may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking hydrocodone / pseudoephedrine, check with your doctor immediately:
Some hydrocodone / pseudoephedrine side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to hydrocodone / pseudoephedrine: oral liquid, oral liquid extended release, oral syrup, oral tablet
Opioids may result in psychotic symptoms in some patients.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects of hydrocodone have included mental and respiratory depression, stupor, delirium, somnolence, and dysphoria.  Nervous system side effects of pseudoephedrine have included insomnia in up to 30% of patients.  Tremor, anxiety, nervousness, and headache have also been reported.[Ref]
Other side effects of hydrocodone have included withdrawal symptoms, such as agitation, restlessness, anxiety, insomnia, tremor, abdominal cramps, blurred vision, vomiting and sweating, after either abrupt cessation or fast tapering of narcotic analgesics.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects of hydrocodone have included nausea, vomiting, constipation, and dry mouth.  Gastrointestinal side effects of pseudoephedrine have included anorexia and gastric irritation in approximately 5% of patients.  Dry mouth, nose, or throat have occurred in up to 15% of patients.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects of pseudoephedrine have included tachycardia.  Some patients have developed hypertension and/or arrhythmias.[Ref]
Pseudoephedrine causes vasoconstriction which generally does not produce hypertension, but may be problematic for patients with preexisting hypertension.  Arrhythmias may be produced in predisposed patients.  Rarely, pseudoephedrine has been reported to cause coronary artery spasm and chest pain.One report evaluated the effect with 60 mg of pseudoephedrine on individuals in a hyperbaric chamber at 1 atmosphere (simulated scuba dive to 66 feet of sea water).  Pseudoephedrine and depth (simulated) were found to have significant but opposite effects on heart rate, although these effects were unlikely to be clinically significant during diving.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects of hydrocodone have included ureteral spasm, spasm of vesicle sphincters, and urinary retention.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects of hydrocodone have included rash.[Ref]
1. Turturro MA, Paris PM, Yealy DM, Menegazzi JJ "Hydrocodone versus codeine in acute musculoskeletal pain." Ann Emerg Med 20 (1991): 1100-3
2. Morrow PL, Faris EC "Death associated with inadvertent hydrocodone overdose in a child with a respiratory tract infection." Am J Forensic Med Pathol 8 (1987): 60-3
3. Fricke J, Halladay SC, Bynum L, Francisco CA "Pain relief after dental impaction surgery using ketorolac, hydrocodone plus acetaminophen, or placebo." Clin Ther 15 (1993): 500-9
4. "Product Information. Histussin D (hydrocodone-pseudoephedrine)" Sanofi Winthrop Pharmaceuticals, New York, NY. 
5. Sackner MA "Effects of hydrocodone bitartrate on breathing pattern of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and restrictive lung disease." Mt Sinai J Med 51 (1984): 222-6
6. Cohen J, Tattersfield H, Lloyd D, Cantopher T "A request for a strong analgesic." Practitioner 234 (1990): 691-4
7. Sorensen JL, Hargreaves WA, Weinberg JA "Heroin addict responses to six weeks of detoxification with LAAM." Drug Alcohol Depend 9 (1982): 79-87
8. Rosen RA "Angina associated with pseudoephedrine ." Ann Emerg Med 10 (1981): 230-1
9. Mariani PJ "Pseudoephedrine-induced hypertensive emergency: treatment with labetalol." Am J Emerg Med 4 (1986): 141-2
10. Wiener I, Tilkian AG, Palazzolo M "Coronary artery spasm and myocardial infarction in a patient with normal coronary arteries: temporal relationship to pseudoephedrine ingestion." Cathet Cardiovasc Diagn 20 (1990): 51-3
11. Morrison AB "Toxicity and abuse of hydrocodone bitartrate." Can Med Assoc J 120 (1979): 1338
It is possible that some side effects of Pancof HC may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Blurred vision
confusion
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fainting
fast, slow, or irregular heartbeat
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness


Abdominal or stomach cramps or pain
bloating
bulging soft spot on the head of an infant
change in the ability to see colors, especially blue or yellow
convulsions
decrease in the frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
diarrhea
difficult or painful urination
difficult or troubled breathing
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
drowsiness
frequent urge to urinate
headache
irregular, fast or slow, or shallow breathing
loss of appetite
nervousness
pale or blue lips, fingernails, or skin
pounding in the ears
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
shortness of breath
sleeplessness
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
trouble with sleeping
unable to sleep
vomiting


Fear
mood changes
nausea
relaxed and calm
sleepiness
unusual drowsiness, dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness


Itching skin
skin rash
weakness

