Generic Name: tranylcypromine
Applies to tranylcypromine: oral tablet
As well as its needed effects, tranylcypromine (the active ingredient contained in Parnate) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking tranylcypromine, check with your doctor immediately:
Some tranylcypromine side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to tranylcypromine: oral tablet
The most important adverse event is hypertensive crisis, which may be fatal.  The most common adverse event is insomnia, which can frequently be overcome by giving the last dose of the day no later than 3 pm or reducing dosage.[Ref]
Severe hypertensive reactions have occurred, notably with tyramine containing foods, and are sometimes fatal.  Symptoms may include pain and stiffness in the neck, multiple extrasystoles, often with substernal pain, sweating and pallor, sometimes followed by flushing, mydriasis, and photophobia.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Tachycardia, palpitation, postural hypotension, severe hypertensive reaction, hypertensive crisis[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Drowsiness, dizziness, headache, myoclonic jerks, numbness, paresthesiaPostmarketing reports: Ataxia, memory loss, akinesia[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Insomnia, overstimulation (including increased anxiety, agitation, and manic symptoms), restlessness, sleep disturbances, hallucinations, drug dependence, suicidal ideation, suicidal behavior, withdrawalPostmarketing reports: Confusion, disorientation[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Dry mouth, nausea, diarrhea, abdominal pain, constipation, vomitingPostmarketing reports: Fissuring in corner of mouth[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Impaired water excretion compatible with syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic syndrome (SIADH)[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Impotence, urinary retention, retarded ejaculationPostmarketing reports: Urinary frequency, urinary incontinence[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Anemia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, blood dyscrasias[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hepatitis, hepatocellular damage, jaundice[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Chills, muscle spasm Postmarketing reports: Localized scleroderma[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Weakness, tinnitus, tremors, fatigue[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Blurred vision[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Skin rash, alopeciaPostmarketing reports: Flare up of cystic acne, urticaria[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Significant anorexia, edema[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Parnate (tranylcypromine)." SmithKline Beecham, Philadelphia, PA. 
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
3. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
It is possible that some side effects of Parnate may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Absence of or decrease in body movement
actions that are out of control
agitation
anxiety
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chest pain
chills
coma
confusion
confusion about identity, place, and time
cough or hoarseness
dark urine
decrease in frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
depression
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
dizziness
dry mouth
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
fever
fever with or without chills
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
headache
hostility
hyperventilation
increased need to urinate
irregular heartbeats
irritability
lethargy
light-colored stools
longer than usual time to ejaculation of semen
loss of bladder control
lower back or side pain
muscle twitching
nausea and vomiting
nervousness
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
passing urine more often
pinpoint red spots on the skin
rapid weight gain
restlessness
seizures
shakiness and unsteady walk
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stupor
sudden jerky movements of the body
swelling
swelling of the face, ankles, or hands
swollen glands
talking, feeling, and acting with excitement
trouble with sleeping
troubled breathing with exertion
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
upper right abdominal pain
yellow eyes and skin


Abdominal or stomach pain
blurred vision
constipation
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
diarrhea
drowsiness
dry mouth
hair loss or thinning of the hair
hearing loss
hives or welts
inability to have or keep an erection
itching
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
loss of appetite
memory loss
muscle spasm
redness of the skin
skin rash
sleeplessness
unable to sleep
weakness
weight loss

