Generic Name: paroxetine
Common side effects of Paxil include: asthenia, constipation, diarrhea, dizziness, drowsiness, ejaculatory disorder, erectile dysfunction, insomnia, male genital disease, nausea, headache, decreased libido, delayed ejaculation, diaphoresis, and xerostomia. Other side effects include: infection, blurred vision, female genital tract disease, impotence, lack of concentration, orgasm disturbance, tremor, vasodilatation, visual disturbance, anxiety, paresthesia, abnormal dreams, decreased appetite, and yawning.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to paroxetine: oral capsule, oral suspension, oral tablet, oral tablet extended release
As well as its needed effects, paroxetine (the active ingredient contained in Paxil) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking paroxetine, check with your doctor immediately:
Some paroxetine side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to paroxetine: oral capsule, oral suspension, oral tablet, oral tablet extended release
Side effects are generally reported as mild.  The most common side effects associated with treatment discontinuation in clinical trials included somnolence, insomnia, agitation, tremor, anxiety, dizziness, headache, constipation, nausea, diarrhea, dry mouth, vomiting, flatulence, asthenia, abnormal ejaculation, sweating, impotence, and decreased libido.The most common dose-dependent side effects associated with treatment discontinuation in clinical trials for the treatment of premenstrual dysphoric disorder with controlled-release paroxetine (the active ingredient contained in Paxil) 25 mg compared with 12.5 mg included nausea, somnolence, impaired concentration, dry mouth, dizziness, decreased appetite, sweating, tremor, and yawn.The most common side effects associated with treatment discontinuation in the treatment of vasomotor symptoms in clinical trials included abdominal pain, attention disturbances, headache, and suicidal ideation.In a placebo-controlled study in elderly patients with major depressive disorder, the most common side effects associated with treatment discontinuation of controlled-release paroxetine included nausea, headache, depression, and abnormal LFTs.There may be adaptation to some side effects (such as nausea and dizziness) but not to others (such as dry mouth, somnolence, and asthenia) with continued therapy.  Paroxetine is less likely than tricyclic antidepressants to be associated with dry mouth, constipation, and somnolence.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): InsomniaCommon (1% to 10%): Abnormal dreams, agitation, anxiety, depersonalization, depression, drugged feeling, emotional lability, lack of emotion, nervousnessUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Abnormal thinking, alcohol abuse, bruxism, euphoria, hallucinations, hostility, lack of emotion, manic reaction, neurosis, paranoid reactionRare (less than 0.1%): Abnormal electroencephalogram, antisocial reaction, bulimia, delirium, delusions, drug dependence, hysteria, irritability, manic-depressive reaction, panic attacks, psychosis, psychotic depression, stupor, withdrawal syndromeFrequency not reported: Suicidal ideation and behaviorPostmarketing reports: Confusional state, disorientation, homicidal ideation, restlessness[Ref]
Antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment.  An increased risk of suicidal thinking and behavior in children, adolescents, and young adults (aged 18 to 24 years) with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders has been reported with short-term use of antidepressant drugs.Adult and pediatric patients receiving antidepressants for MDD, as well as for psychiatric and nonpsychiatric indications, have reported symptoms that may be precursors to emerging suicidality, including anxiety, agitation, panic attacks, insomnia, irritability, hostility, aggressiveness, impulsivity, akathisia, hypomania, and mania.  Causality has not been established.Pooled results from clinical trials report hallucinations in 22 of 9089 patients who received paroxetine and 4 of 3187 patients who received placebo.[Ref]
Extrapyramidal symptoms such as akathisia, bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, dystonia, hypertonia, and oculogyric crisis have been associated with concomitant pimozide therapy.Potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with SSRIs and SNRIs as monotherapy, but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs and drugs that impair the metabolism of serotonin.  Signs and symptoms associated with serotonin syndrome or neuroleptic malignant syndrome included agitation, confusion, diaphoresis, diarrhea, fever, hypertension, rigidity, and tachycardia, and were in some cases associated with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Dizziness, headache, somnolence, tremorCommon (1% to 10%): Amnesia, anxiety, CNS stimulation, confusion, hypertonia, impaired concentration, migraine, myoclonus, paresthesia, taste perversionUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Ataxia, convulsion, dyskinesia, dystonia, hyperesthesia, hyperkinesia, hypokinesia, incoordination, neuralgia, neuropathy, nystagmus, paralysis, syncopeRare (less than 0.1%): Abnormal gait, adrenergic syndrome, akathisia, akinesia, anticholinergic syndrome, aphasia, cerebral ischemia, cerebrovascular accident, choreoathetosis, circumoral paresthesia, dysarthria, extrapyramidal syndrome, fasciculations, grand mal convulsions, hyperalgesia, meningitis, myelitis, peripheral neuritis, reflexes decreased, reflexes increased, taste loss, torticollis, trismus, vascular headachePostmarketing reports: Eclampsia, Guillain-Barre syndrome, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, restless legs syndrome, serotonin syndrome, status epilepticus[Ref]
The results of one study appear to indicate that treatment with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (i.e., paroxetine (the active ingredient contained in Paxil)  sertraline, citalopram) may cause an increase in serum total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, and/or LDL cholesterol.  However, additional studies are necessary to confirm these findings.Numerous cases of hyponatremia have been reported following treatment with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI).  Risk factors for the development of SSRI- associated hyponatremia including advanced age, female gender, concomitant use of diuretics, low body weight, and lower baseline serum sodium levels have been identified.  Hyponatremia tends to develop within the first few weeks of treatment (range 3 to 120 days) and typically resolves within 2 weeks (range 48 hours to 6 weeks) after therapy has been discontinued with some patients requiring treatment.  The proposed mechanism for the development of hyponatremia involves the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) via release of antidiuretic hormone.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Decreased appetite, increased appetite, increases in cholesterol levels, weight gain, weight lossUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Hypoglycemia, hypokalemia, thirstRare (less than 0.1%): Alkaline phosphatase increased, creatinine phosphokinase increased, dehydration, diabetes mellitus, gamma globulins increased, gout, hypercalcemia, hypercholesteremia, hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia, hyperphosphatemia, hypocalcemia, hyponatremia, ketosis, lactic dehydrogenase increased, non-protein nitrogen increased, obesity Postmarketing reports: Porphyria[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Chest pain, edema, palpitation, peripheral edema, tachycardia, vasodilation (usually flushing)Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Abnormal electrocardiogram, angina pectoris, bradycardia, conduction abnormalities, hematoma, hypertension, hypotension, palpitation, postural hypotension, sinus tachycardia, supraventricular tachycardiaRare (less than 0.1%): Arrhythmia, arrhythmia nodal, atrial arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, bundle branch block, cellulitis, congestive heart failure, extrasystoles, heart block, low cardiac output, myocardial infarct, myocardial ischemia, pallor, phlebitis, substernal chest pain, supraventricular extrasystoles, thrombophlebitis, thrombosis, varicose vein, ventricular extrasystolesPostmarketing reports: Atrial fibrillation, pulmonary edema, ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia (including torsades de pointes)[Ref]
Fatigue, malaise, and lethargy were very commonly reported in Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials with paroxetine (the active ingredient contained in Paxil) for treatment of vasomotor symptoms in postmenopausal women.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): AstheniaCommon (1% to 10%): Chills, pain, tinnitus, trauma, vertigoUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Ear pain, fever, malaise, otitis media, overdoseRare (less than 0.1%): Abscess, deafness, hypothermia, otitis externa, sepsis, ulcer, abnormal laboratory value, cyst, hernia, intentional overdosePostmarketing reports: Death[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Decreased libido, ejaculation disturbance, other male genital disorders (primarily ejaculatory delay)Common (1% to 10%): Female genital disorders (primarily anorgasmia and difficulty reaching climax/orgasm), dysmenorrhea, impotence, menorrhagia, menstrual disorder, urinary disorder (primarily difficulty with micturition and urinary hesitancy), urinary frequency, urination impaired, urinary tract infection, vaginal moniliasis, vaginitis Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Albuminuria, amenorrhea, breast pain, cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, increased libido, nocturia, ovarian cyst, polyuria, pyuria, pregnancy and puerperal disorders, testes pain, urinary incontinence, urinary retention, urinary urgency,Rare (0.01% to 0.1%): Abortion, breast atrophy, breast enlargement, endometrial disorder, epididymitis, female lactation, fibrocystic breast, kidney calculus, kidney pain, leukorrhea, mastitis, metrorrhagia, nephritis, oliguria, pelvic pain, salpingitis, urethritis, urinary abnormality, urinary casts, uterine spasm, urolith, vaginal hemorrhageVery rare (less than 0.01%): PriapismPostmarketing reports: Premature births in pregnant women, symptoms suggestive of galactorrhea[Ref]
There are several reports of priapism associated with paroxetine use.  In cases in which outcome was reported, all patients fully recovered.In placebo-controlled clinical trials, ejaculatory disturbance in men was reported in 13% to 28% of men taking paroxetine, compared to 0% to 2% in the placebo group.  Decreased libido was reported in 6% to 15% in men treated with paroxetine, compared to 0% to 5% in the placebo group, and in 0% to 9% in women treated with paroxetine, compared with 0% to 2% in placebo patients.  The estimates of the incidence of untoward sexual experience and performance may underestimate their actual incidence, partly because patients and physicians may be reluctant to discuss this issue.[Ref]
Seven cases of alopecia have been reported.  In all cases, hair loss was eventually reversible.A case of cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis has been reported following treatment with paroxetine (the active ingredient contained in Paxil)   The patient originally developed the lesions after treatment with escitalopram.  The lesions disappeared one week following discontinuation of escitalopram and reappeared upon rechallenge.  When the patient was switched to paroxetine a similar reaction occurred.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): SweatingCommon (1% to 10%): Eczema, hypertension, photosensitivity, pruritus, rash, sweat gland disorderUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Acne, alopecia, contact dermatitis, dry skin, ecchymosis, furunculosis, purpura, urticariaRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Angioedema, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, exfoliative dermatitis, fungal dermatitis, hirsutism, maculopapular rash, pustular rash, seborrhea, skin discoloration, skin hypertrophy, skin ulcer, sweating decreased, vesiculobullous rashVery rare (less than 0.01%): Severe cutaneous reactions such as Stevens Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis)Postmarketing reports: Vasculitic syndromes (such as Henoch-Schonlein purpura)[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Goiter, hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, thyroiditisPostmarketing reports: Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion, symptoms suggestive of prolactinemia[Ref]
A study of 26,005 antidepressant users has reported 3.6 times more upper GI bleeding episodes with the use of SSRIs relative to the population who did not receive antidepressant medications.  Upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding was observed up to 3.2 times more frequently in patients receiving paroxetine (the active ingredient contained in Paxil) [Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Constipation, diarrhea, dry mouth, nauseaCommon (1% to 10%): Abdominal pain, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastrointestinal disorder, gingivitis, stomatitis, tooth disorder, vomitingUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Buccal cavity disorders, colitis, dysphagia, eructation, gastritis, gastroenteritis, gastroesophageal reflux, gastrointestinal flu, gingivitis, glossitis, increased salivation, melena, pancreatitis, rectal hemorrhage, toothache, ulcerative stomatitisRare (less than 0.1%): Aphthous stomatitis, bloody diarrhea, cardiospasm, cholelithiasis, duodenitis, enteritis, esophagitis, fecal impaction, fecal incontinence, gum hemorrhage, gum hyperplasia, hematemesis, ileitis, ileus, intestinal obstruction, mouth ulceration, peptic ulcer, peritonitis, salivary gland enlargement, sialadenitis, stomach ulcer, tooth caries, tongue discoloration, tongue edema, tooth malformationPostmarketing reports: Acute pancreatitis, pancreatitis hemorrhagic[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Anemia, eosinophilia, hypochromic anemia, leukocytosis, leukopenia, lymphadenopathy, WBC abnormalityRare (less than 0.1%): Abnormal erythrocytes, abnormal lymphocytes, anisocytosis, basophilia, bleeding time increased, iron deficiency anemia, lymphedema, lymphocytosis, lymphopenia, microcytic anemia, monocytosis, normocytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocythemia,Postmarketing reports: Events related to impaired hematopoiesis (including aplastic anemia, pancytopenia, bone marrow aplasia, agranulocytosis), hemolytic anemia, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Abnormal liver function tests, SGOT increased, SGPT increasedRare (less than 0.1%): Bilirubinemia, hepatitis, hepatosplenomegaly, jaundicePostmarketing reports: Drug-induced liver injury, elevated liver function tests, hepatic failure[Ref]
In placebo-controlled clinical trials patients receiving paroxetine experienced abnormal values on liver function tests at a rate equal to or less than that reported in patients receiving placebo.  However, there have been postmarketing reports of patients developing elevated serum transaminases resulting in severe liver dysfunction, as well as, a few cases of elevated liver function tests resulting in death secondary to liver necrosis.[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Allergic reaction, face edemaRare (less than 0.1%): Anaphylactoid reactionPostmarketing reports: Anaphylaxis[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): InfectionUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Flu syndrome, herpes simplexRare (less than 0.1%): Herpes zoster, moniliasis[Ref]
Epidemiological studies, primarily in patients aged 50 years or older, have shown an increased risk of bone fractures in patients receiving SSRIs or TCAs.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Arthralgia, back pain, migraine, myalgia, myasthenia, myopathy Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Arthritis, arthrosis, bursitis, myositis, neck pain, tendonitis, traumatic fractureRare (less than 0.1%): Cartilage disorder, generalized spasm, myositis, neck rigidity, osteoporosis, tenosynovitis, tetany[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Abnormality of accommodation, abnormal vision, blurred visionUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Conjunctivitis, eye pain, keratoconjunctivitis, mydriasis, photophobia, retinal hemorrhageRare (less than 0.1%): Anisocoria, blepharitis, cataract, conjunctival edema, corneal lesion, corneal ulcer, diplopia, exophthalmos, eye hemorrhage, glaucoma, hyperacusis, night blindness, ptosis, visual field defectFrequency not reported: Angle-closure glaucoma, eye painPostmarketing reports: Acute glaucoma, optic neuritis[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Abnormal kidney function, BUN increasedPostmarketing reports: Acute renal failure[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Bronchitis, cough increased, oropharynx disorder, pharyngitis, respiratory disorder, rhinitis, sinusitis, yawn Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Asthma, dyspnea, epistaxis, hyperventilation, laryngitis, pneumonia, respiratory fluRare (less than 0.1%): Dysphonia, emphysema, hemoptysis, hiccups, lung fibrosis, parosmia, pulmonary edema, pulmonary embolus, sputum increased, stridor, throat tightness, voice alterationPostmarketing reports: Allergic alveolitis, laryngismus, pulmonary hypertension[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Pexeva (PARoxetine)." Synthon Pharmaceuticals Ltd, Chapel Hill, NC. 
2. "Product Information. Paxil CR (paroxetine)." SmithKline Beecham, Philadelphia, PA. 
3. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
4. "Product Information. Brisdelle (PARoxetine)." Noven Pharmaceuticals, Inc., New York, NY. 
5. "Product Information. Paxil (paroxetine)." GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC. 
6. Boyer WF, Blumhardt CL "The safety profile of paroxetine." J Clin Psychiatry 53 Suppl (1992): 61-6
7. Staner L, Kerkhofs M, Detroux D, Leyman S, Linkowski P, Mendlewicz J "Acute, subchronic and withdrawal sleep EEG changes during treatment with paroxetine and amitriptyline: a double-blind randomized trial in major depression." Sleep 18 (1995): 470-7
8. Adler LA, Angrist BM "Paroxetine and akathisia." Biol Psychiatry 37 (1995): 336-7
9. Paruchuri P,  Godkar D,  Anandacoomarswamy D,  Sheth K,  Niranjan S "Rare case of serotonin syndrome with therapeutic doses of paroxetine." Am J Ther 13 (2006): 550-552
10. Patkar AA,  Masand PS,  Krulewicz S, et al. "A randomized, controlled, trial of controlled release paroxetine in fibromyalgia." Am J Med 120 (2007): 448-54
11. Fava GA, Grandi S "Withdrawal syndromes after paroxetine and sertraline discontinuation." J Clin Psychopharmacol 15 (1995): 374-5
12. Bloch M, Stager SV, Braun AR, Rubinow DR "Severe psychiatric symptoms associated with paroxetine withdrawal." Lancet 346 (1995): 57
13. Phillips SD "Possible paroxetine withdrawal syndrome." Am J Psychiatry 152 (1995): 645-6
14. Jacob S,  Spinler SA "Hyponatremia associated with selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors in older adults." Ann Pharmacother 40 (2006): 1618-22
15. Herran A,  Ramirez ML,  Carrera M, et al. "Panic disorder, treatment with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, and cholesterol levels." J Clin Psychopharmacol 26 (2006): 538-40
16. Rothschild AJ "Sexual side effects of antidepressants." J Clin Psychiatry 61 (2000): 28-36
17. Ahmad S "Paroxetine-induced priapism." Arch Intern Med 155 (1995): 645
18. Flores-Suarez LF,  Vega-Memije ME,  Chanussot-Deprez C "Cutaneous vasculitis during selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor therapy." Am J Med 119 (2006): e1-3
19. Ahmed R,  Eagleton C "Toxic epidermal necrolysis after paroxetine treatment." N Z Med J 121 (2008): 86-9
20. Gautam M "Alopecia due to psychotropic medications." Ann Pharmacother 33 (1999): 631-7
21. Margolese HC, Chouinard G, Beauclair L, Rubino M "Cutaneous vasculitis induced by paroxetine." Am J Psychiat 158 (2001): 497
22. Ayonrinde OT, Reutens SG, Sanfilippo FM "Paroxetine-induced SIADH." Med J Aust 163 (1995): 390
23. Madhusoodanan S, Brenner R, Brafman I, Bogunovic O "Hyponatremia associated with paroxetine use." South Med J 92 (1999): 843
24. Chua TP, Vong SK "Hyponatraemia associated with paroxetine." BMJ 306 (1993): 143
25. van Campen JP, Voets AJ "SIADH caused by paroxetine." Ann Pharmacother 30 (1996): 1499
26. Odeh M, Seligmann H, Oliven A "Severe life-threatening hyponatremia during paroxetine therapy." J Clin Pharmacol 39 (1999): 1290-1
27. Goddard C, Paton C "Hyponatraemia associated with paroxetine." BMJ 305 (1992): 1332
28. Spigset O, hedenmalm K "Hyponatremia in relation to treatment with antidepressants: a survey of reports in the World Health Organization data base for spontaneous reporting of adverse drug reactions." Pharmacotherapy 17 (1997): 348-52
29. Dalton SO,  Johansen C,  Mellemkjaer L,  Norgard B,  Sorensen HT,  Olsen JH "Use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and risk of upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding: a population-based cohort study." Arch Intern Med 163 (2003): 59-64
30. Ottervanger JP, Stricker BH, Huls J, Weeda JN "Bleeding attributed to the intake of paroxetine." Am J Psychiatry 151 (1994): 781-2
31. Odeh M, Misselevech I, Boss JH, Oliven A "Severe hepatotoxicity with jaundice associated with paroxetine." Am J Gastroenterol 96 (2001): 2494-6
32. Liu B, Anderson G, Mittmann N, To Teresa, Axcell T, Shear N "Use of selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors or tricyclic antidepressants and risk of hip fractures in elderly people." Lancet 351 (1998): 1303-7
It is possible that some side effects of Paxil may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Agitation
chest congestion
chest pain
chills
cold sweats
confusion
difficulty with breathing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
muscle pain or weakness
skin rash


Absence of or decrease in body movements
bigger, dilated, or enlarged pupils (black part of the eye)
convulsions (seizures)
difficulty with speaking
dry mouth
fever
inability to move the eyes
incomplete, sudden, or unusual body or facial movements
increased sensitivity of the eyes to light
poor coordination
red or purple patches on the skin
restlessness
shivering
sweating
talking, feeling, and acting with excitement and activity you cannot control
trembling or shaking, or twitching


Back, leg, or stomach pains
blindness
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
blue-yellow color blindness
blurred vision
constipation
cough or hoarseness
dark urine
decreased frequency or amount of urine
decreased vision
difficulty with swallowing
electric shock sensations
eye pain
fainting
general body swelling
headache
high fever
hives or itching skin
inability to move the arms and legs
inability to sit still
increased thirst
incremental or ratchet-like movement of the muscle
joint pain
light-colored stools
lockjaw
loss of appetite
loss of bladder control
lower back or side pain
muscle spasm, especially of the neck and back
muscle tension or tightness
painful or difficult urination
painful or prolonged erection of the penis
pale skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
raised red swellings on the skin, the buttocks, legs, or ankles
red, irritated eyes
sensitivity to the sun
skin redness or soreness
slow heart rate
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
spasms of the throat
stiff muscles
stomach pain
sudden numbness and weakness in the arms and legs
swelling of the breasts
swelling of the face, fingers, or lower legs
swollen or painful glands
tightness in the chest
unexpected or excess milk flow from the breasts
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
weight gain
yellowing of the eyes or skin


Acid or sour stomach
belching
decreased appetite
decreased sexual ability or desire
heartburn
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
passing gas
problems with urinating
runny or stuffy nose
sexual problems, especially ejaculatory disturbances
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
stomach discomfort or upset
trouble sleeping


Abnormal dreams
change in sense of taste
congestion
discouragement, feeling sad, or empty
drugged feeling
fast or irregular breathing
feeling of unreality
headache, severe and throbbing
increased appetite
itching of the vagina or genital area
itching, pain, redness, or swelling of the eye or eyelid
lack of emotion
loss of interest or pleasure
lump in the throat
menstrual changes
pain during sexual intercourse
problems with memory
sense of detachment from self or body
sneezing
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
tightness in the throat
tingling, burning, or prickling sensations
trouble concentrating
voice changes
watering of the eyes
weight loss
yawn

