As well as its needed effects, aspirin / oxycodone may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking aspirin / oxycodone, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking aspirin / oxycodone, get emergency help immediately:
Some aspirin / oxycodone side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Psychosis has also been reported during withdrawal from oxycodone.
Oxycodone may be habit forming.  Withdrawal symptoms after either abrupt cessation or fast tapering may occur and include agitation, restlessness, anxiety, insomnia, tremor, abdominal cramps, piloerection, blurred vision, vomiting, and sweating.
Gastrointestinal effects of aspirin are common and include epigastric distress, (in as many as 83% of patients treated with regular aspirin), abdominal discomfort or pain, endoscopically identifiable gastric mucosal lesions, nausea, and vomiting.  More serious gastrointestinal effects include hemorrhage, peptic ulcers, perforation, and esophageal ulcerations.  Nausea, vomiting, and constipation occur commonly with oxycodone.
Endoscopically identifiable gastric mucosal lesions occur in most patients who receive a single dose of aspirin.  Clinically evident gastrointestinal bleeding has been reported in as many as 3% of elderly patients taking aspirin.One case controlled study has suggested that an association between aspirin (and other NSAID) consumption and appendicitis may exist.
Severe adverse effects of oxycodone, such as respiratory depression, can be treated with the opioid antagonist naloxone.  (The usual adult dose of naloxone is 1 to 2 mg every 5 minutes as necessary.  The dose is usually administered intravenously, but in an emergency may be given intramuscularly, subcutaneously, or sublingually.)Some investigators have suggested that tinnitus may be a less reliable indicator of salicylate toxicity than previously believed.  In one study of rheumatoid arthritis patients, those with tinnitus had no greater salicylate levels than those without tinnitus.  In addition, elderly patients may be less likely to perceive tinnitus than younger patients.
Nervous system side effects of oxycodone containing products are common and include drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and lightheadedness.  Respiratory depression has also been reported.  Tinnitus and subjective hearing loss (or both) may occur with aspirin.  Some investigators have reported that modest aspirin doses may result in decreased frequency selectivity and may therefore impair hearing performance, particularly in the setting of background noise.
The mechanism of aspirin induced decrease in renal function may be related to inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis with consequent decreases in renal blood flow.  Vasodilating renal prostaglandins may be particularly important in patients who exhibit arterial underfilling (i.e.  heart failure, cirrhosis).  The administration of high doses of NSAIDs to such patients has produced acute renal failure in rare instances.
Renal effects of aspirin include reduction in glomerular filtration rate (particularly in patients who are sodium restricted or who exhibit diminished effective arterial blood volume, such as patients with advanced heart failure or cirrhosis), interstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, elevations in serum creatinine, elevations in blood urea nitrogen, proteinuria, hematuria, and renal failure.
Hematologic effects of aspirin (in addition to predictable antiplatelet effects which may result in hemorrhage) include increased blood fibrinolytic activity.  Hypoprothrombinemia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocyturia, megaloblastic anemia, aplastic anemia, and pancytopenia have been reported rarely.
The mechanism of aspirin induced hypersensitivity may be related to an up regulation of the 5-lipoxygenase pathway of arachidonic acid metabolism with a resulting increase in the products of 5-lipoxygenase (such as leukotrienes).Cases of localized periorbital edema have been reported rarely during aspirin therapy.
Aspirin hypersensitivity reactions include bronchospasm, rhinitis, conjunctivitis, urticaria, angioedema, and anaphylaxis.  Approximately 10% to 30% of asthmatics are aspirin-sensitive (with the clinical triad of aspirin sensitivity, bronchial asthma and nasal polyps).
Cardiovascular effects of aspirin have been reported rarely and include salicylate induced variant angina, ventricular ectopy, and conduction abnormalities.  These problems are most commonly encountered during salicylate toxicity.
Several epidemiologic studies have suggested that chronic aspirin use may decrease the risk of large bowel neoplasms.  However, other studies have not found such a beneficial effect.  Since aspirin-oxycodone is most commonly used for short term therapy, this effect is unlikely to be seen.
Metabolic side effects of aspirin include respiratory alkalosis and metabolic acidosis, particularly during salicylate toxicity.  A case of hypoglycemia has been reported in a patient on hemodialysis.  Salicylates have also been reported to displace triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) from protein binding sites.  The initial effect is an increase in serum free T4 concentrations.
Reye's syndrome, although rare, has been associated with aspirin use in children with an acute viral illness.  Reye's syndrome has also been reported even more rarely in adults.  Full strength aspirin-oxycodone is generally not used in children.
Reye's syndrome (associated with aspirin therapy) typically involves vomiting, neurologic dysfunction, and hepatic dysfunction during or shortly after an acute viral infection.
Cases of aspirin induced hepatotoxicity and cholestatic hepatitis, particularly at high doses, have been reported rarely.
Psychiatric adverse effects of oxycodone reported include paranoia, psychosis, and hallucinations.
Oxycodone may produce pruritus.  Other dermatologic effects have been reported rarely with aspirin and include Stevens-Johnson syndrome and lichenoid eruption.
It is possible that some side effects of Percodan may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal pain, cramping, or tenderness
agitation
bleeding gums
bloating
blood in the urine or stools
bloody, black, or tarry stools
blue lips, fingernails, or skin
blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
change in consciousness or confusion
chest pain or discomfort
chills
clay-colored stools
constipation
convulsions
coughing or vomiting blood
dark-colored urine
decrease in urine volume or frequency
decreased appetite
depression
difficult, fast, noisy breathing, sometimes with wheezing
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
drowsiness
dry mouth
fainting
fast, slow, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
feeling of hostility or irritability
feeling of warmth
feeling that something terrible will happen
fever
headache, sudden, severe
heartburn
hives or itching
increased menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding
increased sweating
indigestion
irregular, fast, slow, or shallow breathing
large, flat, blue or purplish patches in the skin
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of consciousness
low body temperature
muscle cramping, weakness, or tremors
muscle pain or stiffness
nausea or vomiting
nosebleeds
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips 
painful or difficult urination
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
pale skin
pinpoint red or purple spots on the skin
prolonged bleeding from cuts
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red or black, tarry stools or dark urine
restlessness
shivering
shortness of breath
skin rash
sleepiness
sunken eyes
sweating
swelling of face, ankles, hands, feet, or lower legs
thirst
tightness in the chest
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of material that looks like coffee grounds, severe and continuing
weak or feeble pulse
weakness or heaviness of the legs
weight gain
wheezing
wrinkled skin
yellow eyes or skin
Continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
decreased awareness or responsiveness
diarrhea
drowsiness
enlarged pupils
extremely high fever or body temperature
fast, weak heartbeat
hearing loss
increase in heart rate
restlessness
severe sleepiness
Relaxed and calm feeling
sleepiness
Belching
bloated, full feeling
blurred or loss of vision
change in color perception
cold sweats
constricted, pinpoint, or small pupils (black part of the eye)
cool, pale skin
double vision
excess air or gas in the stomach
false or unusual sense of well-being
flushed, dry skin
fruit-like breath odor
halos around lights
increased hunger or thirst
increased urination
lack or loss of strength
night blindness
nightmares
overbright appearance of lights
red eyes
redness of the skin
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
shakiness
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
slurred speech
trouble sleeping
tunnel vision
unusual drowsiness, dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness
weight loss