As well as its needed effects, potassium phosphate / sodium phosphate may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking potassium phosphate / sodium phosphate, check with your doctor immediately:
Some potassium phosphate / sodium phosphate side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
There have been reports of a laxative effect occurring over the first few days of therapy.  Lowering the dose usually reverses this effect; however, discontinuation of therapy is sometimes necessary.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included a laxative effect.Gastrointestinal side effects associated with phosphate have included diarrhea, nausea, stomach pain, and vomiting.
Musculoskeletal side effects associated with phosphate have included bone and joint pain, and osteomalacia.Musculoskeletal side effects associated with potassium and/or sodium have included muscle cramps.
Nervous system side effects associated with potassium and/or sodium have included headache, dizziness, mental confusion, seizures, weakness or heaviness of legs, unusual tiredness or weakness, numbness, tingling, pain, weakness of hands or feet, and numbness or tingling around lips.
Cardiovascular side effects associated with potassium and/or sodium have included fast or irregular heartbeat, shortness of breath, troubled breathing, and swelling of feet or lower legs.
Other side effects associated with potassium and/or sodium have included unusual weight gain and unusual thirst.
Renal side effects associated with potassium and/or sodium have included low urine output.
It is possible that some side effects of PHOS-NaK may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Bone pain
convulsions
decreased urine output
dizziness
fast or irregular heartbeat
headache
joint pain
mental confusion
muscle cramps
numbness or tingling around the lips
numbness, tingling, pain, or weakness of the hands or feet
shortness of breath
swelling of the feet or lower legs
troubled breathing
unusual thirst
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight gain
weakness or heaviness of the legs
Diarrhea
nausea
stomach pain
vomiting