Commonly reported side effects of glimepiride/pioglitazone include: hypoglycemia and weight gain. Other side effects include: edema and nausea.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
The most common adverse reactions included upper respiratory tract infections, accidental injury, and combined edema/peripheral edema.
Pioglitazone-SulfonylureaVery common (10% or more): Lower leg edema (up to 12.3%)Pioglitazone:Very common (10% or more): Edema (up to 26.7%)Common (1% to 10%): Cardiac failure, chest pain
Pioglitazone is associated with edema (peripheral, generalized, and pitting edema and fluid retention) when used alone or when used in combination therapy.  In pioglitazone monotherapy trials, edema occurred in 2.5% (n=81), 4.7% (n=275), and 6.5% (n=169) of patients receiving 15 mg, 30 mg, and 45 mg of pioglitazone daily for 16 to 26 weeks.  Pioglitazone in combination with a sulfonylurea for 16 to 24 weeks resulted in edema in 1.6% (n=184), 11.3% (n=540), and 23.1% (n=351) of patients receiving 15 mg, 30 mg, and 45 mg of pioglitazone daily, respectively.  In a study in patients with NYHA class II or III heart failure the percentage of patients experiencing CHF progression during the study was 13.4% and 8.2% in patients receiving pioglitazone (n=262) and glyburide (n=256), respectively.  In the PROactive trial, a study in 5238 patients with type 2 diabetes and a history of macrovascular disease who were force-uptitrated to pioglitazone 45 mg once a day or received placebo in addition to standard of care, edema occurred in 27.3% of patients treated with pioglitazone (n=2605) compared with 15.9% of placebo (n=2633) patients.  Treatment-emergent adverse events leading to at least 1 hospitalized congestive heart failure event occurred in 5.7% of patients receiving pioglitazone and 4.1% of patients receiving placebo.  The primary objective of the 3-year PROactive trial was to examine the effect of pioglitazone on mortality and macrovascular morbidity in high-risk patients.  No statistically significant difference between pioglitazone and placebo/standard care were observed for time to the first occurrence of their first event (all-cause mortality, nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI) including silent MI, stroke, acute coronary syndrome, cardiac intervention including coronary artery bypass grafting or percutaneous intervention, major leg amputation above the ankle, and bypass surgery or revascularization in the leg).  A total of 514 patients receiving pioglitazone experienced at least 1 event compared with 572 patients receiving placebo/standard care.  Postmarketing reports of congestive heart failure have been received in patients treated with pioglitazone.  Reports have been received from patients both with and without a history of a known history of heart disease and both with and without concomitant insulin use.
Pioglitazone:Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): ALT values greater than 3 times upper limit of normal (3 x ULN)Postmarketing reports: Hepatic failureGlimepiride:Common (1% to 10%): Elevated ALT to greater than 2 x ULNPostmarketing reports: Liver function impairment (e.g.  with cholestasis and jaundice), as well as hepatitis, which may progress to liver failure, hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactions
There have been postmarketing reports of serious allergic reactions in patients receiving glimepiride such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, dyspnea, hypotension, and shock.  In clinical trials allergic reactions such as pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions, occurred in less than 1% of patients receiving glimepiride, and some resolved despite continued treatment.
Glimepiride:Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Allergic reactionsPostmarketing reports: Serious allergic reactions
The US FDA has released results of its review of pioglitazone and bladder cancer and concluded that the data suggests use of this drug may be linked to an increase risk of bladder cancer.  A 10-year prospective cohort study in diabetic patients performed by the manufacturer (n=158,918 never users; n=34,181 ever users) identified 1075 newly diagnosed cases of bladder cancer in never users and 186 cases in ever users.  The fully adjusted hazard ratio (HR) showed pioglitazone use was not associated with an increased risk (HR 1.06 (95% confidence interval 0.89 to 1.26).  And while a modest trend towards higher risk with increasing duration was observed, this trend was not statistically significant.  Compared to the interim 5-year results, the 10-year results found weaker associations that were not statistically significant.  However, there are studies that have shown a statistically significant association between exposure to this drug and bladder cancer and an association between cumulative dose or cumulative duration of exposure and bladder cancer.  Overall, this drug may be associated with an increase in the risk of urinary bladder tumors, however there is insufficient data to determine whether this drug is a tumor promoter for urinary bladder tumors.
Pioglitazone:Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Bladder cancer
Pioglitazone:Frequency not reported: Resumption of ovulation in premenopausal, anovulatory women, hormonal imbalance Glimepiride:Postmarketing reports: Hyponatremia, syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH)
SIADH has been reported postmarketing in patients receiving glimepiride, most often in patients who are on other medications or who have medical conditions known to cause hyponatremia or increase release of antidiuretic hormone.
Pioglitazone:Postmarketing reports: New or worsening diabetic macular edema with decreased visual acuity
Macular edema has been reported in postmarketing experience in diabetic patients who were taking pioglitazone or another thiazolidinedione.  Some patients presented with blurred vision or decreased visual acuity, but some patients appear to have been diagnosed on routine ophthalmologic examination.  Some patients had peripheral edema at the time macular edema was diagnosed.  Some patients had improvement in their macular edema after discontinuation of their thiazolidinedione.  It is unknown whether or not there is a causal relationship between pioglitazone and macular edema.
Pioglitazone is associated with dose-related weight gain when used alone or when used in combination therapy.  The mechanism of weight gain is unclear, but probably involves a combination of fluid retention and fat accumulation.  In pioglitazone monotherapy trials, weight increases of 0.9 kg, 1 kg, and 2.6 kg occurred in patients receiving 15 mg, 30 mg, and 45 mg of pioglitazone daily for 16 to 26 weeks.  Pioglitazone in combination with a sulfonylurea for 16 to 24 weeks resulted in weight increases of 2 kg, 3.1 kg, and 4.1 kg, for patients receiving 15 mg, 30 mg, and 45 mg of pioglitazone daily respectively.  In the PROactive (Prospective Pioglitazone Clinical Trial in Macrovascular Events) trial, the median change in body weight in patients treated with pioglitazone (n=2560) compared with placebo (n=2581) was -0.5 kg compared to +3.6 kg.  The median exposure to drug was 2.7 years.
Pioglitazone-SulfonylureaVery common (10% or more): Hypoglycemia (up to 15.7%), weight increase (up to 13.4%)
Pioglitazone-SulfonylureaVery common (10% or more): Upper respiratory tract infection (up to 14.8%)Common (1% to 10%): Sinusitis, pharyngitisPioglitazone:Very common (10% or more): Upper respiratory tract infection (up to 13.2%)
Pioglitazone-SulfonylureaFrequency not reported: AnemiaPioglitazone:Frequency not reported: Decreases in hemoglobin and hematocritGlimepiride:Postmarketing reports: Hemolytic Anemia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytopenia purpura
Laboratory findings have shown decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit with pioglitazone therapy; mean hemoglobin values declined by 2% to 4% in pioglitazone treated patients compared to -1% to 1% in placebo-treated patients.  These changes primarily occurred during the first 3 months.  Changes may be related to increased plasma volume and not likely to be associated with any clinically significant hematologic effects.
Pioglitazone-SulfonylureaCommon (1% to 10%): Diarrhea, nausea
Pioglitazone-SulfonylureaCommon (1% to 10%): Headache, dizziness
Pioglitazone-SulfonylureaCommon (1% to 10%): Limb painPioglitazone:Common (1% to 10%): Myalgia, pain in extremity, back painFrequency not reported: Elevated creatine phosphokinase (CPK)
Elevations in CPK were observed during protocol-specified measurement of CPK in pioglitazone clinical trials.  Isolated elevation to 10 times the upper limit of normal was observed in 9 patients (0.2%).  Elevations resolved without any clinical sequelae and the relationship to drug therapy is unknown.
Glimepiride:Postmarketing reports: Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions and allergic vasculitis
Pioglitazone-SulfonylureaCommon (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infection
Anxiety
bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
blurred vision
chills
cold sweats
coma
confusion
cool, pale skin
depression
difficult, burning, or painful urination
fast heartbeat
frequent urge to urinate
headache
increased hunger
increased weight
lower back or side pain
nausea
nightmares
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
swelling of the feet or lower legs
unusual tiredness or weakness
Accidental injury
loss of appetite
pain or swelling in the arms or legs without any injury
pale skin
stomach pain
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
vomiting
weight loss
yellow eyes or skin
Body aches or pain
cough
diarrhea
difficulty with moving
dryness or soreness of the throat
ear congestion
fever
hoarseness
joint pain
loss of voice
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pains or stiffness
runny nose
sneezing
stuffy nose
swollen joints
tender, swollen glands in the neck
tooth disorder
trouble swallowing
voice changes
Dizziness
itching skin
lack or loss of strength
skin rash