Applies to primidone: oral suspension, oral tablet
As well as its needed effects, primidone may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking primidone, check with your doctor immediately:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking primidone, get emergency help immediately:

Some primidone side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to primidone: oral suspension, oral tablet
Nervous system effects including ataxia and vertigo have been reported most frequently.[Ref]
Ataxia and vertigo tend to disappear either with continued therapy or with the reduction of the initial dosage.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal effects including nausea, anorexia, and vomiting have been reported occasionally.[Ref]
General effects including fatigue, hyperirritability, and drowsiness have been reported occasionally.[Ref]
Psychiatric effects including emotional disturbances have been reported occasionally.  A case of primidone induced catatonic schizophrenia has also been reported.[Ref]
Massive crystalluria has also been rarely been reported following acute overdoses of primidone.[Ref]
Genitourinary effects including sexual impotency have been reported occasionally.  A case of massive crystalluria has been reported in a patient receiving maintenance doses of primidone.[Ref]
Ocular effects including diplopia and nystagmus have been reported occasionally.[Ref]
Dermatologic effects including morbilliform skin eruptions have been reported occasionally.[Ref]
Hematologic effects including granulocytopenia, agranulocytosis, red cell hypoplasia, thrombocytopenia, and aplasia have been reported rarely.  The manufacturer has reported that megaloblastic anemia may occur as a rare idiosyncrasy to primidone.[Ref]
The anemia may respond to folic acid without the necessity to discontinue the primidone.  The phenobarbital metabolite of primidone has been reported to have potentiated porphyrias.[Ref]
Rheumatologic side effects include drug induced lupus, frozen shoulder, and Dupuytren's contractures.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Mysoline (primidone)" Elan Pharmaceuticals, S. San Francisco, CA. 
2. Sher A, Andersen JM, Bhatia SC "Primidone-induced catatonic schizophrenia." Drug Intell Clin Pharm 17 (1983): 551-2
3. Sigg T, Leikin JB "Massive crystalluria in a patient taking primidone [letter]." Ann Emerg Med 33 (1999): 726-7
4. "Multum Information Services, Inc. Expert Review Panel"  
5. Mattson RH, Cramer JA, McCutchen CB "Barbiturate-related connective tissue disorders." Arch Intern Med 149 (1989): 911-4
It is possible that some side effects of primidone may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Shakiness and unsteady walk
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination


Unusual excitement or restlessness (especially in children and in the elderly)


Chills
cough or hoarseness
fainting spells
fever and sore throat
fever with or without chills
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
irregular heartbeat
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
shortness of breath
skin rash
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness 


Confusion
continuous, uncontrolled rolling eye movements
double vision
troubled breathing


Clumsiness or unsteadiness
dizziness or lightheadedness
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
sensation of spinning


Decreased sexual ability
drowsiness
loss of appetite
mood or mental changes
nausea or vomiting

