Generic Name: finasteride
More frequent side effects include: impotence and decreased libido.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to finasteride: oral tablet
As well as its needed effects, finasteride (the active ingredient contained in Propecia) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking finasteride, check with your doctor immediately:
Some finasteride side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to finasteride: oral tablet
Most men were older and were taking concomitant medications and/or had comorbid conditions:Very common (10% or more): Impotence (up to 18.5%)Common (1% to 10%): Abnormal ejaculation, decreased ejaculatory volume, abnormal sexual function, gynecomastia, erectile dysfunction, ejaculation disorder, testicular pain, male infertility and/or poor seminal quality[Ref]
Two hundred fourteen reports of gynecomastia in men taking finasteride in the United States were received by the FDA between June 1992 and February 1995.  Among those reported, fifty eight percent were taking additional medications that have been associated with gynecomastia.  Sixty nine of 86 patients who discontinued finasteride treatment had partial or complete remission.New reports of drug-related sexual adverse experiences have been reported to decrease with duration of therapy.Erectile dysfunction has been reported to continue beyond treatment discontinuation.  Normalization or improvement of seminal quality has been reported after withdrawing finasteride treatment.[Ref]
Finasteride may cause a decrease in PSA levels in patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia as well as in patients with prostate cancer.  In one study, mean PSA reductions of 50% were noted, regardless of baseline levels.  There was no indication that PSA levels were further suppressed in patients with prostate cancer.PSA levels are commonly used in the screening process for prostate cancer.  Patients who develop sustained increases in PSA while on finasteride (the active ingredient contained in Propecia) therapy should be carefully evaluated for medical causes as well as noncompliance.[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Breast tenderness, breast enlargementFrequency not reported: Reductions in prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels of approximately 50%[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Decreased libido, dizziness, somnolenceFrequency not reported: Headache[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Postural hypotension, hypotensionPostmarketing reports: Palpitations[Ref]
Frequency not reported: A prevention or delay in the appearance of prostate cancer, an increased risk of high-grade prostate cancerPostmarketing reports: Rare cases of male breast cancer[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Nausea, flatulence, abdominal pain[Ref]
A 58 year old man presented with an itchy, lumpy rash on upper and lower extremities following two weeks of finasteride (the active ingredient contained in Propecia) treatment for prostatism.  The patient had no known allergies and was taking no other medications prior to the episode.  The finasteride was discontinued and dapsone was initiated.  The rash resolved two weeks after finasteride therapy was stopped.[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): RashVery rare (less than 0.01%): Cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis, solitary fixed drug eruptionPostmarketing reports: Pruritus, urticaria, angioedema (including swelling of the lips, tongue, throat, and face)[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Pruritus, urticaria, angioedema of the lips, tongue, throat, and face[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Edema[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Rhinitis, dyspnea[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Depression
Frequency not reported: Asthenia
Frequency not reported: Increased hepatic enzymes
1. "Product Information. Proscar (finasteride)." Merck & Co, Inc, West Point, PA. 
2. Steiner JF "Finasteride: a 5 alpha-reductase inhibitor." Clin Pharm 12 (1993): 15-23
3. Gormley GJ, Stoner E, Bruskewitz RC, Imperato-McGinley J, Walsh PC, McConnell JD, Andriole GL, Geller J, Bracken BR, Tenover JS, et al "The effect of finasteride in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia. The Finasteride Study Group." N Engl J Med 327 (1992): 1185-91
4. Tammela TL, Kontturi MJ "Urodynamic effects of finasteride in the treatment of bladder outlet obstruction due to benign prostatic hyperplasia." J Urol 149 (1993): 342-4
5. Ferrando J,  Grimalt R,  Alsina M,  Bulla F,  Manasievska E "Unilateral Gynecomastia Induced by Treatment With 1 mg of Oral Finasteride." Arch Dermatol 138 (2002): 543-4
6. Green L, Wysowski DK, Fourcroy JL "Gynecomastia and breast cancer during finasteride therapy." N Engl J Med 335 (1996): 823
7. Stoner E "5 alpha-reductase inhibitors/finasteride." Prostate Suppl 6 (1996): 82-7
8. Guess HA, Heyse JF, Gormley GJ "The effect of finasteride on prostate-specific antigen in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia." Prostate 22 (1993): 31-7
9. Stoner E, Round E, Ferguson D, Gormley GJ "Clinical experience of the detection of prostate cancer in patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia treated with finasteride." J Urol 151 (1994): 1296-300
10. Guess HA, Gormley GJ, Stoner E, Oesterling JE "The effect of finasteride on prostate specific antigen: review of available data." J Urol 155 (1996): 3-9
11. Volpi R, Maccarini PA, Boni S, Chiodera P, Coiro V "Finasteride-induced gynecomastia in a 62-year-old man." Am J Med Sci 309 (1995): 322-5
12. Thompson IM,  Goodman PJ,  Tangen CM, et al. "The influence of finasteride on the development of prostate cancer." N Engl J Med 349 (2003): 215-24
13. Australian Government. Department of Health. Therapeutic Goods Administration "Medicines Safety Update, Volume 4, Number 6, December 2013. Available from: URL: http://www.tga.gov.au/hp/msu-2013-06.htm."   ([2013 Dec]):
14. Oyama N,  Kaneko F "Solitary fixed drug eruption caused by finasteride." J Am Acad Dermatol 60 (2009): 168-9
15. Lear JT, Byrne JPH "Finasteride-related cutaneous vaculitis." Postgrad Med J 72 (1996): 127
It is possible that some side effects of Propecia may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Chills
cold sweats
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position


Bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
breast enlargement and tenderness
hives or welts
itchy skin
rapid weight gain
redness of the skin
skin rash
swelling of the lips and face
tingling of the hands or feet
unusual weight gain or loss


Clear or bloody discharge from the nipple
dimpling of the breast skin
inverted nipple
lump in the breast or under the arm
persistent crusting or scaling of the nipple
redness or swelling of the breast
sore on the skin of the breast that does not heal


Decreased interest in sexual intercourse
inability to have or keep an erection
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance


Runny nose
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sneezing
stuffy nose


Abdominal or stomach pain
back pain
decreased amount of semen
diarrhea
dizziness
headache


Testicular pain

