As well as its needed effects, pyrimethamine may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking pyrimethamine, check with your doctor immediately:
Some pyrimethamine side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, glossitis, and atrophic glossitis, particularly with high doses.  Gastrointestinal intolerance may be minimized by administering pyrimethamine with food.
Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported when pyrimethamine is administered with a sulfonamide.  These reactions may be severe and include erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, Lyell's syndrome, hepatitis, anaphylaxis, and pulmonary reactions.  Fatal reactions have been estimated to occur in one of 11,000 to 25,000 patients treated.  Hypersensitivity reactions have also been reported with pyrimethamine/clindamycin combinations and are usually limited to maculopapular rashes.
Hematologic side effects have occurred, especially when large doses of pyrimethamine are administered.  Thrombocytopenia, megaloblastic anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, agranulocytosis, and fatalities have been reported.
Nervous system toxicity is problematic with higher dosages of pyrimethamine.  Ataxia, tremors, and seizures may occur.
Respiratory side effects have rarely included pulmonary eosinophilia.
Cardiovascular side effects have included arrhythmias, particularly with high doses.
Metabolic side effects have included hyperphenylalaninemia, particularly when pyrimethamine is given in combination with a sulfonamide.
Oncologic side effects have included two reports of malignancy; both were associated with pyrimethamine treatment for toxoplasmosis: 1 patient developed chronic granulocytic leukemia after 2 years of therapy and 1 patient developed reticulum cell sarcoma after 14 months of therapy.  Animal studies have revealed increased lung tumors with intraperitoneal administration.
It is possible that some side effects of pyrimethamine may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Black, tarry stools
blood in urine or stools
cough or hoarseness
 fever or chills
irritation or soreness of tongue 
lower back or side pain
 painful or difficult urination
pinpoint red spots on skin
unusual bleeding or bruising
Bleeding or crusting sores on lips
 chest pain or discomfort
muscle cramps or pain
redness, blistering, peeling, or loosening of skin
skin rash
sores, ulcers, and/or white spots in mouth
sore throat
 unusual tiredness or weakness
Blood in urine
diarrhea
difficulty swallowing
dizziness
fainting spells
fast, slow, or irregular heartbeat
hives
itching 
joint or muscle pain
 lightheadedness
pale skin
 pounding or rapid pulse
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips or tongue
 rapid breathing
red, irritated eyes
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
 shortness of breath
swollen glands
tightness in chest
unexplained bleeding or bruising
wheezing
Abdominal or stomach pain
convulsions (seizures)
increased excitability
vomiting (severe and continuing)
Diarrhea
loss of appetite
nausea
vomiting