As well as its needed effects, diphtheria toxoid / pertussis, acellular / poliovirus vaccine, inactivated / tetanus toxoid may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking diphtheria toxoid / pertussis, acellular / poliovirus vaccine, inactivated / tetanus toxoid, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some diphtheria toxoid / pertussis, acellular / poliovirus vaccine, inactivated / tetanus toxoid side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
General side effects have included drowsiness, fever, and loss of appetite.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included anaphylactoid reactions, anaphylaxis, angioedema, and urticaria, apnea, collapse or shocklike state (hypotonic-hyporesponsive episode), convulsions (with or without fever), lymphadenopathy, and thrombocytopenia.
Local side effects have included pain, redness, swelling, and increase in arm circumference.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included gastroenteritis and dehydration.
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus.
It is possible that some side effects of Quadracel may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal or stomach pain
blurred vision
confusion
decreased urination
diarrhea
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
dizziness
dry mouth
fainting
fast heartbeat
fever
inability to speak
irritability
itching, pain, redness, swelling, tenderness, or warmth on the skin
lightheadedness
loss of appetite
muscle twitching
nausea
rapid breathing
restlessness
seizures
severe or sudden headache
slurred speech
sunken eyes
swelling of the feet or lower legs
temporary blindness
thirst
unusual tiredness or weakness
weakness
weakness in the arm and/or leg on one side of the body, sudden and severe
wrinkled skin
Black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
bluish lips or skin
collapse or shock-like state
cough
difficulty swallowing
hives
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
pinpoint red spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
skin rash
slow breathing
swollen, painful, or tender lymph glands in neck, armpit, or groin
tightness in the chest
unusual bleeding or bruising
Loss of appetite
pain, redness, or swelling at the injection site
sleepiness