Commonly reported side effects of quazepam include: drowsiness. Other side effects include: dizziness, vertigo, insomnia, confusion, and headache.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, quazepam may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking quazepam, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking quazepam, get emergency help immediately:
Some quazepam side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most frequently reported side effects included daytime drowsiness, headache, fatigue, dizziness, dry mouth, and dyspepsia.
Very common (10% or more): Daytime drowsiness (12%)Common (1% to 10%): Headache, fatigue, dizziness.
Common (1% to 10%): Dry mouth, dyspepsia
It is possible that some side effects of quazepam may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Drowsiness
Dizziness
Anxiety
dry mouth
hyperventilation
increased muscle spasm
irregular heartbeats
irritability
nervousness
nightmares
restlessness
shaking
shortness of breath
trouble in sleeping
unusual excitement, nervousness, restlessness, or irritability
Abdominal or stomach pain
changes in patterns and rhythms of speech
chills
clay-colored stools
dark urine
decrease in frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
fever
headache
inability to move eyes
increased blinking or spasms of the eyelid
itching
loss of appetite
loss of bladder control
nausea
painful urination
rash
seizures
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
sleeplessness
slurred speech
sticking out of the tongue
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
trouble in breathing, speaking, or swallowing
unable to sleep
uncontrolled twisting movements of the neck, trunk, arms, or legs
unpleasant breath odor
unusual facial expressions
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin
Change in consciousness
loss of consciousness
mood or mental changes
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
Acid or sour stomach
belching
heartburn
indigestion
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
Decreased interest in sexual intercourse
inability to have or keep an erection
increased in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
increased interest in sexual intercourse
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
menstrual changes
sweating
vomiting