Commonly reported side effects of remifentanil include: nausea. Other side effects include: shivering and diaphoresis.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to remifentanil: intravenous powder for solution, intravenous solution
As well as its needed effects, remifentanil may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 

If any of the following side effects occur while taking remifentanil, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some remifentanil side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to remifentanil: intravenous powder for injection, intravenous solution
Respiratory side effects have included respiratory depression, apnea, and hypoxia.  These effects have tended to occur most frequently in the immediate postoperative period.[Ref]
Extremely small doses of remifentanil can cause serious respiratory depression.Amin and colleagues have shown that respiratory depression due to remifentanil is reversed within 10 minutes upon withdrawal of the drug.  The administration of naloxone has not been shown to be more effective than withdrawal of remifentanil alone.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea (22% to 44%) and vomiting (8% to 22%) have been reported to occur most frequently in the postoperative period.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects such as hypotension (4% to 19%) and bradycardia (1% to 7%) have been reported to occur most frequently during the induction and maintenance period.  Hypertension and tachycardia have been rare events.[Ref]
Bradycardia and hypotension are probably due to a centrally mediated increase in vagal nerve activity.  Glycopyrrolate, atropine and/or ephedrine may be useful in treating these effects.  Unlike morphine, decreases in blood pressure are not due to histamine release.Dershwitz and colleagues describe a case in which a patient who was taking 100 mg of metoprolol twice a day for hypertension experienced severe bradycardia and hypotension within 2 minutes of receiving remifentanil intravenously at 0.3 mg/kg/min.  These symptoms responded to atropine, ephedrine and phenylephrine.  Remifentanil was continued without further sequelae.[Ref]
Rigidity may be lessened by concomitant administration of a muscle relaxant.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included muscle rigidity (<1% to 11%) which has occurred more frequently during induction and maintenance than postoperatively.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects including dizziness and agitation have been relatively rare (<5%).  A case of generalized tonic-clonic activity has also been reported.[Ref]
Other side effects have included postoperative shivering, chills, and fever (1% to 5%).  Headache has been reported to occur more frequently in monitored anesthesia care patients (18%) than in general anesthesia patients (1% to 2%).[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus (1% to 18%) and sweating (6%).  Dermatologic side effects have been more common in patients receiving monitored anesthesia care.[Ref]
1. Amin HM, Sopchak AM, Esposito BF, Henson LG, Batenhorst RL, Fox AW, Camporesi EM "Naloxone-induced and spontaneous reversal of depressed ventilatory responses to hypoxia during and after continuous infusion of remifentanil or alfentanil." J Pharmacol Exp Ther 274 (1995): 34-9
2. "Product Information. Ultiva (remifentanil)." Glaxo Wellcome, Research Triangle Park, NC. 
3. Koo BN,  Choi SH,  Chun DH, et al. "Respiratory depression caused by remifentanil infusion for postoperative pain control." Anesth Analg 103 (2006): 1627-8
4. Dershwitz M, Randel GI, Rosow CE, Fragen RJ, Connors PM, Librojo ES, Shaw DL, Peng AW, Jamerson BD "Initial clinical experience with remifentanil, a new opioid metabolized by esterases." Anesth Analg 81 (1995): 619-23
5. Sebel PS, Hoke JF, Westmoreland C, Hug CC Jr, Muir KT, Szlam F "Histamine concentrations and hemodynamic responses after remifentanil." Anesth Analg 80 (1995): 990-3
6. Haber GW,  Litman RS "Generalized tonic-clonic activity after remifentanil administration." Anesth Analg 93 (2001): 1532-3
It is possible that some side effects of remifentanil may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Blurred vision
chest pain or discomfort
confusion
difficult or troubled breathing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly
irregular, fast or slow, or shallow breathing
lightheadedness, dizziness, or fainting
muscle stiffness or tightness
pale or blue lips, fingernails, or skin
shortness of breath
slow or irregular heartbeat
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness


Bluish lips or skin
chills
decrease in cardiac output
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
feeling of warmth
fever
headache
nausea or vomiting
nervousness
not breathing
pain after surgery
pain in the shoulders, arms, jaw, or neck
pounding in the ears
problems with bleeding or clotting
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
shivering


Abdominal or stomach pain
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
body aches or pain
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
congestion
cough or hoarseness
cough producing mucus
coughing that sometimes produces a pink frothy sputum
coughing up blood
decreased frequency or amount of urine
difficult, fast, or noisy breathing, sometimes with wheezing
difficulty with swallowing
disorientation
dry mouth
dryness or soreness of the throat
dysphoria
eye pain
flushed, dry skin
fruit-like breath odor
general feeling of illness
hiccups
hives
increased blood pressure
increased hunger
increased menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding
increased sweating
increased thirst
increased urination
itching
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
muscle cramps or pain
nervousness
noisy breathing
nosebleeds
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
paralysis
pinpoint red spots on the skin
prolonged bleeding from cuts
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rapid heartbeat
red or black, tarry stools
red or dark brown urine
runny nose
seizures
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
skin rash
small clicking, bubbling, or rattling sounds in the lungs when listening with a stethoscope
stuffy nose
swelling in the legs and ankles
swelling of the face, fingers, or lower legs
tender, swollen glands in the neck
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing with exertion
unexplained weight loss
unusual bleeding or bruising
voice changes
vomiting
weakness and heaviness of the legs
weight gain


Anxiety
blurred or loss of vision
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
disturbed color perception
double vision
halos around lights
hyperventilation
night blindness
overbright appearance of lights
pain at the injection site
restlessness
trouble with sleeping
tunnel vision


Burning while urinating
heartburn
hives or welts
loss of bladder control
loss of memory
nightmares
problems with memory
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
severe constipation
severe vomiting
trouble with urinating
uncontrolled eye movements

