Generic Name: hydrocodone / ibuprofen
Common side effects of Reprexain include: drowsiness and dyspepsia.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to hydrocodone / ibuprofen: oral tablet
As well as its needed effects, hydrocodone / ibuprofen may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking hydrocodone / ibuprofen, check with your doctor immediately:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking hydrocodone / ibuprofen, get emergency help immediately:

Some hydrocodone / ibuprofen side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to hydrocodone / ibuprofen: oral tablet
Nervous system side effects of hydrocodone have included mental depression, dizziness, lightheadedness, respiratory depression (which is sometimes fatal), stupor, delirium, somnolence, agitation, and dysphoria.Central nervous system side effects of ibuprofen including headache, drowsiness, and dizziness have been reported rarely.  Aseptic meningitis associated with ibuprofen has been described in several case reports.  In addition, paresthesias and pseudotumor cerebri have been reported, although causality is unknown.[Ref]
One study has suggested that the respiratory depression caused by hydrocodone may be of benefit in the treatment of dyspnea related to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and restrictive lung disease.  However, the potential for the precipitation of respiratory insufficiency makes such use of hydrocodone hazardous and such use should be undertaken, if at all, only with extreme caution.The incidence of aseptic meningitis associated with ibuprofen is higher in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and other connective tissue diseases although it has been reported in patients without such underlying disease states.[Ref]
Other side effects reported with ibuprofen have included tinnitus (1% to 3%) and vertigo.Like other narcotic analgesics, hydrocodone may be habit forming.  Withdrawal symptoms after either abrupt cessation or fast tapering of narcotic analgesics may occur.  Such symptoms may include agitation, restlessness, anxiety, insomnia, tremor, abdominal cramps, blurred vision, vomiting and sweating.[Ref]
The incidence of gastrointestinal blood loss with ibuprofen is dose-related, occurring in up to 17% of patients receiving 1,600 mg per day and in 23% of patients receiving 2,400 mg of ibuprofen per day.Patients with a history of serious gastrointestinal events or alcohol abuse are at increased risk for severe gastrointestinal side effects.  Ibuprofen should be used with caution in these patients.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects of ibuprofen have usually been mild and transient, and have included dyspepsia, nausea, diarrhea, abdominal pain, and flatulence.  More serious gastrointestinal effects are uncommon but include occult blood loss, ulcer, gastrointestinal hemorrhage with or without perforation, and pancreatitis.  In addition, small bowel enteropathies and ibuprofen-associated colitis have been reported.  Bloody vomiting has occurred in overdose.  Colonic and pyloric channel strictures have also been reported.Nausea, vomiting, constipation, and dry mouth are relatively common effects of narcotic analgesics.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects including ureteral spasm, spasm of vesicle sphincters, and urinary retention have been reported with the use of hydrocodone.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have been uncommon with the use of ibuprofen.  They have included maculopapular rash, pruritus, vesiculobullous eruptions, erythema multiforme, vasculitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and alopecia.  Toxic epidermal necrolysis as well as photosensitivity reactions are reported as well, although causality is unknown.Narcotic-induced rashes have been reported.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects including elevations in liver function tests, jaundice, hepatitis, liver necrosis, and hepatic failure (some of them with fatal outcomes) have been reported.[Ref]
Elevations in liver function tests three times normal values occur in less than 1% of patients.  Ibuprofen-induced hepatitis has been associated with a fatal outcome in some cases.Vanishing bile duct syndrome has been associated with ibuprofen use.  A 29-year-old male patient presented with right upper quadrant pain, jaundice, pruritus and dark urine.  He had been taking ibuprofen 600 mg/day for body aches and tension related headaches three weeks prior to the onset of symptoms.  The patient remained jaundiced, with xanthomatosis, and complained of fatigue and pruritus 12 months following ibuprofen ingestion.  He was eventually referred to an institution for liver transplantation evaluation.  The patient was diagnosed with vanishing bile duct syndrome attributed to ibuprofen use.[Ref]
Renal side effects of ibuprofen have included mild renal insufficiency as well as nephrotic syndrome with and without renal failure, and acute renal failure due to tubulointerstitial nephritis, papillary necrosis, and acute tubular necrosis.[Ref]
Ibuprofen may impair the ability of the kidney to cope with low renal blood flow states due to inhibition of prostaglandin-dependent afferent arteriolar vasodilation.  Renal function may be further compromised in patients with heart failure, hypovolemia, cirrhosis, nephrotic syndrome, or hypoalbuminemia.  Additional risk factors for ibuprofen-induced renal insufficiency are advanced age and concomitant use of diuretics.A case-controlled study suggested that patients who consumed 5000 or more pills containing NSAIDs during their lifetime may be at increased risk of end-stage renal disease.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects from ibuprofen have included hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH).  In addition, gynecomastia, hypoglycemia, and acidosis have been reported, although causality is unknown.  Hyperkalemia has occurred in overdose.[Ref]
A rare case of painful, persistent peripheral cyanosis and swelling of the fingers and toes which progressed to desquamation and digital pitting infarctions has been associated with ibuprofen.Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may elevate blood pressure and increase the risk for the initiation of antihypertensive therapy.  Furthermore, NSAIDs may antagonize the blood pressure lowering effect of antihypertensive medications in patients already being treated with antihypertensive drugs.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects of ibuprofen have included peripheral edema (1% to 3%) and elevated blood pressure (< 1%).  This may be important in some patients with preexisting hypertension or congestive heart failure.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effect of ibuprofen have included erythematous or urticarial rashes, pruritus, angioedema, bronchospasm, and anaphylactoid reactions, particularly in patients with the syndrome of asthma, nasal polyps, and angioedema and/or bronchospastic reactivity to aspirin.  Rare cases of systemic reactions, including interstitial nephritis and diffuse pulmonary infiltrates, have also been reported.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects of ibuprofen have included platelet dysfunction, neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, and decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit.[Ref]
Reductions in serum hemoglobin concentrations are uncommon and are usually associated with occult gastrointestinal blood loss.  Rare cases of ibuprofen-associated hemolytic anemia, autoimmune thrombocytopenia, and leukopenia have been reported.[Ref]
Acute noncardiogenic pulmonary edema developed on two occasions in an HIV-positive patient.  Infectious as well as cardiac etiologies were excluded.  A close temporal relationship with the administration of ibuprofen and onset of symptoms was noted.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects including noncardiogenic pulmonary edema associated with ibuprofen therapy has been reported.[Ref]
Ocular side effects from the use of ibuprofen have included blurred vision (<1%), scotomata, and diplopia.  In addition, at least one case of corneal verticillata has been reported.[Ref]
1. Fricke J, Halladay SC, Bynum L, Francisco CA "Pain relief after dental impaction surgery using ketorolac, hydrocodone plus acetaminophen, or placebo." Clin Ther 15 (1993): 500-9
2. Turturro MA, Paris PM, Yealy DM, Menegazzi JJ "Hydrocodone versus codeine in acute musculoskeletal pain." Ann Emerg Med 20 (1991): 1100-3
3. Sackner MA "Effects of hydrocodone bitartrate on breathing pattern of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and restrictive lung disease." Mt Sinai J Med 51 (1984): 222-6
4. Morrow PL, Faris EC "Death associated with inadvertent hydrocodone overdose in a child with a respiratory tract infection." Am J Forensic Med Pathol 8 (1987): 60-3
5. "Product Information. Motrin (ibuprofen)." Pharmacia and Upjohn, Kalamazoo, MI. 
6. Morrison AB "Toxicity and abuse of hydrocodone bitartrate." Can Med Assoc J 120 (1979): 1338
7. Horn AC, Jarrett SW "Ibuprofen-induced aseptic meningitis in rheumatoid arthritis." Ann Pharmacother 31 (1997): 1009-11
8. Wolfe TR "Ibuprofen overdose." Am J Emerg Med 13 (1995): 375
9. Cohen J, Tattersfield H, Lloyd D, Cantopher T "A request for a strong analgesic." Practitioner 234 (1990): 691-4
10. Csete M, Sullivan JB "Vicodin-induced fulminant hepatic failure." Anesthesiology 79 (1993): 857-60
11. Bell EA, Grothe R, Zivkovich V, Foote JM, Wellendorf J "Pyloric channel stricture secondary to high-dose ibuprofen therapy in a patient with cystic fibrosis." Ann Pharmacother 33 (1999): 693-6
12. Brown RD, Wilson JT "An assessment of the safety of pediatric ibuprofen: a practitioner-based randomized clinical trial." J Pediatr 127 (1995): 836
13. Ribeiro A, Wolfsen HC, Wolfe JT, Loeb DS "Colonic strictures induced by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs." South Med J 91 (1998): 568-72
14. Somasundaram S, Hayllar H, Rafi S, Wrigglesworth JM, Macpherson AJS, Bjarnason I "The biochemical basis of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug-induced damage to the gastrointestinal tract: a review and a hypothesis." Scand J Gastroenterol 30 (1995): 289-99
15. Peters F, Maessenvisch B, Kho L "Leukocytoclastic vasculitis induced by a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug." J Rheumatol 23 (1996): 2008-9
16. Alam I, Ferrell LD, Bass NM "Vanishing bile duct syndrome temporally associated with ibuprofen use." Am J Gastroenterol 91 (1996): 1626-30
17. Radford RG, Holley KE, Grande JP, Larson TS, Wagoner RD, Donadio JV, Mccarthy JT "Reversible membranous nephropathy associated with the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs." JAMA 276 (1996): 466-9
18. Primack WA, Rahman SM, Pullman J "Acute renal failure associated with amoxicillin and ibuprofen in an 11-year-old boy." Pediatr Nephrol 11 (1997): 125-6
19. Gurwitz JH, Everitt DE, Monane M, et al "The impact of ibuprofen on the efficacy of antihypertensive treatment with hydrochlorothiazide in elderly persons." J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci 51 (1996): m74-9
20. Heerdink ER, Leufkens HG, Herings RM, Ottervanger JP, Stricker BH, Bakker A "NSAIDs associated with increased risk of congestive heart failure in elderly patients taking diuretics." Arch Intern Med 158 (1998): 1108-12
21. Chetty KG, Ramirez MM, Mahutte CK "Drug-induced pulmonary edema in a patient infected with human immunodeficiency virus." Chest 104 (1993): 967-9
22. Fitt A, Dayan M, Gillie RF "Vortex keratopathy associated with ibuprofen therapy." Eye 10 (1996): 145-6
It is possible that some side effects of Reprexain may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Bloody stools
burning feeling in the chest or stomach
congestion in the chest
changes in facial skin color
cough
diarrhea
difficulty with swallowing
fast or irregular breathing
fever
frequent urge to urinate
heartburn
inability to urinate
irregular heartbeat
lightheadedness or dizziness
loss of bladder control
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes
ringing or buzzing in the ears
shortness of breath, troubled breathing, tightness in the chest or wheezing
skin rash, hives, or itching
stomach pain
tenderness in the stomach


Blurred vision
cold or clammy skin
confusion
difficulty hearing or ringing or buzzing in the ears
dizziness
general feeling of illness
headache
mood or mental changes
nausea or vomiting
severe drowsiness
severe stomach pain
skin rash
slow heartbeat
slow or troubled breathing
stiff neck or back
swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or lower legs


Anxiety
constipation
dry mouth
gas
increased sweating
nervousness
pounding heartbeat
sleepiness
trouble in sleeping
unusual tiredness or weakness


Decreased appetite
decrease in sexual ability
depression
headache
heartburn
increased thirst
irritability
mood or mental changes
mouth ulcers
pain or burning in the throat
runny nose
sensation of burning, warmth, heat, numbness, tightness, or tingling
slurred speech
stomach upset
thinking abnormalities 
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
unexplained weight loss
unusual feeling of well-being
visual disturbances

