Generic Name: delavirdine
Common side effects of Rescriptor include: skin rash and nausea. Other side effects include: diarrhea, fatigue, headache, increased serum alanine aminotransferase, and increased serum aspartate aminotransferase.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to delavirdine: oral tablet
As well as its needed effects, delavirdine (the active ingredient contained in Rescriptor) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking delavirdine, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some delavirdine side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to delavirdine: oral tablet
The majority of adverse effects were mild to moderate in intensity during clinical trials with delavirdine (the active ingredient contained in Rescriptor) alone or with other antiretroviral agents.  Dermatologic effects, primarily rash, are the most common adverse effects observed and have occurred in approximately 18% of patients enrolled in Phase I and Phase II clinical trials assessing combination therapy with delavirdine.  Rash has reportedly appeared in up to 44% of patients in other clinical trials.  In Phase I and II trials, delavirdine treatment was discontinued in 4.3% of treated patients secondary to drug rash and severe rash occurred in 3.6% of patients.[Ref]
Rash (typically occurring on the upper body and proximal arms) presents within 1 to 3 weeks of therapy as diffuse, maculopapular, erythematous, and often pruritic.  It occurs more frequently in patients with lower CD4 counts.  Dose titration does not significantly reduce the incidence of rash and, furthermore, is not recommended due to the rapid development of delavirdine (the active ingredient contained in Rescriptor) resistant HIV strains when subpotent dosages are administered.  Most cases resolve within 2 weeks and do not require discontinuation of delavirdine.  Symptomatic treatment such as diphenhydramine or topical corticosteroids has provided relief in some cases.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included grade 1 rash (erythema, pruritus; 16.7%), grade 2 rash (diffuse maculopapular rash, dry desquamation; 14.3%), and grade 3 rash (vesiculation, moist desquamation, ulceration; 4.4%).  During clinical trials of delavirdine with other antiretroviral agents, rashes (13.4% to 19.5%), epidermal cyst, sebaceous cyst, angioedema, dermal leukocytoclastic vasculitis, dermatitis, desquamation, diaphoresis, discolored skin, dry skin, erythema, folliculitis, fungal dermatitis, hair loss, herpes zoster or simplex, nail disorder, petechiae, non-application site pruritus, seborrhea, skin hypertrophy, skin disorder, skin nodule, urticaria, vesiculobullous rash, and wart have been reported.  Erythema multiforme and Stevens-Johnson syndrome occurred rarely and typically resolved with the discontinuation of delavirdine.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea (14.7% to 20.3%), vomiting (2.5% to 6.5%), diarrhea (2.4% to 5.9%), and generalized abdominal pain (2.4% to 5%) during clinical trials of delavirdine (the active ingredient contained in Rescriptor) with other antiretroviral agents.  Abdominal cramps, abdominal distention, localized abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, bloody stool, colitis, increased or decreased appetite, Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, diverticulitis, dry mouth, dyspepsia, dysphagia, all levels of enteritis, eructation, fecal incontinence, flatulence, gagging, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, gastrointestinal disorder, gingivitis, gum hemorrhage, increased saliva, increased thirst, ulcers or inflammation of the mouth or tongue, oral/enteric moniliasis, rectal disorder, sialadenitis, tooth abscess, toothache, and taste perversion have also been reported.[Ref]
Other side effects have included asthenia/fatigue (5.3% to 16%), fever (1.6% to 7.1%), flu syndrome (2.4% to 7.3%), and localized pain (1.8% to 5.7%) during clinical trials of delavirdine (the active ingredient contained in Rescriptor) with other antiretroviral agents.  Abscess, chills, generalized or localized edema, infection, viral infection, lip edema, malaise, Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection, neck rigidity, ear pain, parosmia, otitis media, and tinnitus have also been reported.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included adenopathy, bruising, eosinophilia, granulocytosis, leukopenia, pancytopenia, purpura, spleen disorder, thrombocytopenia, prolonged prothrombin time (greater than 1.5 times ULN), decreased hemoglobin (less than 7 mg/dL) and neutrophils (less than 750/mm3), and increased activated partial thromboplastin (greater than 2.33 times ULN) during clinical trials of delavirdine (the active ingredient contained in Rescriptor) with other antiretroviral agents.  Hemolytic anemia has been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included upper respiratory infection (4.7% to 7.6%), sinusitis (1.2% to 7.3%), bronchitis (3.5% to 6.7%), cough (3.5% to 5%), pharyngitis (1.6% to 5%), chest congestion, dyspnea, epistaxis, hiccups, laryngismus, pneumonia, and rhinitis during clinical trials of delavirdine (the active ingredient contained in Rescriptor) with other antiretroviral agents.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included increased alanine transaminase (ALT/SGPT; greater than 5 times ULN), aspartate transaminase (AST/SGOT; greater than 5 times ULN), gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT; greater than 5 times ULN), and bilirubin (greater than 2.5 times ULN), hepatomegaly, jaundice, nonspecific hepatitis, and pancreatitis during clinical trials of delavirdine (the active ingredient contained in Rescriptor) with other antiretroviral agents.  Hepatic failure has been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects have included alcohol intolerance, increased amylase (greater than 2 times ULN), bilirubinemia, hyperglycemia (greater than 250 mg/dL), hypoglycemia (less than 40 mg/dL), hyperkalemia, hypertriglyceridemia, hyperuricemia, hypocalcemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia, increased lipase, increased serum alkaline phosphatase, increased serum creatinine, and increased or decreased weight during clinical trials of delavirdine (the active ingredient contained in Rescriptor) with other antiretroviral agents.  Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement, peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and "cushingoid appearance" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects have included depressive symptoms (4.9% to 12.6%), anxiety (2.4% to 6.7%), insomnia (1.2% to 5%), decreased libido, euphoria, hallucination, paranoid symptoms, nervousness, manic symptoms, and emotional lability during clinical trials of delavirdine (the active ingredient contained in Rescriptor) with other antiretroviral agents.
Nervous system side effects have included headache (11.2% to 16.8%), abnormal coordination, agitation, amnesia, change in dreams, cognitive impairment, confusion, disorientation, dizziness, hyperesthesia, hyperreflexia, hypertonia, hypesthesia, impaired concentration, neuropathy, nystagmus, paralysis, restlessness, sleep cycle disorder, somnolence, tingling, tremor, vertigo, and weakness during clinical trials of delavirdine (the active ingredient contained in Rescriptor) with other antiretroviral agents.
Cardiovascular side effects have included abnormal cardiac rate and rhythm, cardiac insufficiency, cardiomyopathy, hypertension, migraine, pallor, peripheral vascular disorder, and postural hypotension during clinical trials of delavirdine (the active ingredient contained in Rescriptor) with other antiretroviral agents.
Renal side effects have included renal calculi and renal pain during clinical trials of delavirdine (the active ingredient contained in Rescriptor) with other antiretroviral agents.  Acute renal failure has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Ocular side effects have included blepharitis, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, dry eyes, and photophobia during clinical trials of delavirdine (the active ingredient contained in Rescriptor) with other antiretroviral agents.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgia or arthritis of single and multiple joints, bone disorder, bone pain, myalgia, tendon disorder, tenosynovitis, tetany, and muscle cramp during clinical trials of delavirdine (the active ingredient contained in Rescriptor) with other antiretroviral agents.  Rhabdomyolysis has been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included amenorrhea, breast enlargement, epididymitis, hemospermia, impotence, metrorrhagia, testicular pain, vaginal moniliasis, hematuria, chromaturia, impaired urination, nocturia, polyuria, proteinuria, and urinary tract infection during clinical trials of delavirdine (the active ingredient contained in Rescriptor) with other antiretroviral agents.[Ref]
Immunologic side effects have included immune reconstitution syndrome.  Autoimmune disorders (e.g., Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barre syndrome) have been reported in the setting of immune reconstitution.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included allergic reaction during clinical trials of delavirdine (the active ingredient contained in Rescriptor) with other antiretroviral agents.
1. Warnke D,  Barreto J,  Temesgen Z "Antiretroviral drugs." J Clin Pharmacol 47 (2007): 1570-9
2. "Product Information. Rescriptor (delavirdine)." Pharmacia and Upjohn, Kalamazoo, MI. 
3. Panel on Antiretroviral Therapy and Medical Management of HIV-Infected Children. NIH. National Institutes of Health "Guidelines for the use of antiretroviral agents in pediatric HIV infection. Available from: URL: http://aidsinfo.nih.gov/guidelines/html/2/pediatric-treatment-guidelines/0"   ([2012 Nov 5]):
4. Scott LJ, Perry CM "Delavirdine - A review of its use in HIV infection." Drugs 60 (2000): 1411-44
5. HHS Panel on Antiretroviral Guidelines for Adults
and Adolescents – A Working Group of the Office of AIDS Research
Advisory Council (OARAC). NIH. National Institutes of Health "Guidelines for the use of antiretroviral agents in HIV-1-infected adults and adolescents. Available from: URL: http://aidsinfo.nih.gov/ContentFiles/AdultandAdolescentGL.pdf."   ([2011 Oct 14]):
6. Conway B "Initial therapy with protease inhibitor-sparing regimens: Evaluation of nevirapine and delavirdine." Clin Infect Dis 30 (2000): s130-4
7. Bellman PC "Clinical experience with adding delavirdine to combination therapy in patients in whom multiple antiretroviral treatment including protease inhibitors has failed." AIDS 12 (1998): 1333-40
8. Davey RT Jr, Chaitt DG, Reed GF, Freimuth WW, Herpin BR, Metcalf JA, Eastman PS, Falloon J, Kovacs JA, Polis MA, Walker RE, Masur H, Boyle J "Randomized, controlled phase I/II, trial of combination therapy with delavirdine (U-90152S) and conventional nucleosides in huma immunodeficiency virus type 1-infected patients." Antimicrob Agents Chemother 40 (1996): 1657-64
9. Moyle G "The emerging roles of non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors in antiretroviral therapy." Drugs 61 (2001): 19-26
10. Holtzer CD, Coleman RL "Use of nonnucleoside reverse-transcriptase inhibitors." Am J Health Syst Pharm 55 (1998): 283-7
It is possible that some side effects of Rescriptor may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Skin rash (severe) with itching


Skin rash with symptoms such as fever, blistering, oral lesions, conjunctivitis, swelling, muscle aches, or joint aches


Difficulty in breathing


Agitation
back, leg, or stomach pains 
bleeding gums
chills 
coma
confusion
dark urine
decreased urine output
depression
difficulty breathing
dizziness
fatigue
 fever
general body swelling
 headache
hostility
irritability 
lethargy
loss of appetite 
muscle twitching
nausea 
nosebleeds
pale skin 
rapid weight gain
seizures (convulsions)
sore throat
 stupor
swelling of face, ankles, or hands
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting 
yellowing of the eyes or skin


Body aches or pain
cough
diarrhea
discouragement
ear congestion
fear
 feeling sad or empty
general feeling of discomfort or illness
joint pain
 lack or loss of strength
loss of interest or pleasure 
loss of voice
muscle aches and pains
 nasal congestion
nervousness
pain, localized 
pain or tenderness around eyes and cheekbones
 runny nose
shivering
 shortness of breath
sneezing
 sweating
tightness in chest
 tiredness
trouble concentrating
 trouble sleeping
wheezing


Abdominal pain, generalized 
dryness or soreness of throat
hoarseness
 sleeplessness
 tender, swollen glands in neck
trouble in swallowing
unable to sleep 
 voice changes

