Generic Name: cyclosporine ophthalmic
Common side effects of Restasis include: burning sensation of eyes.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to cyclosporine ophthalmic: ophthalmic emulsion
As well as its needed effects, cyclosporine ophthalmic (the active ingredient contained in Restasis) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Some cyclosporine ophthalmic side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to cyclosporine ophthalmic: ophthalmic emulsion
The most commonly reported side effects were ocular burning, eye pain, eye irritation, lacrimation, ocular hyperemia, and eyelid erythema.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Ocular burningCommon (1% to 10%): Eyelid erythema, increased lacrimation, ocular hyperemia, blurred vision, eyelid edema, conjunctival hyperemia, eye irritation, eye painUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Ocular bacterial keratitis, ocular herpes zoster, conjunctival edema, lacrimal disorder, eye discharge, eye pruritus, conjunctival irritation, conjunctivitis, foreign body sensation in eyes, deposit eye, keratitis, blepharitis, corneal decompensation, chalazion, corneal infiltrates, corneal scar, eyelid pruritus, iridocyclitis, epiphora, stinging[Ref]
Postmarketing side effects include: hypersensitivity (eye swelling, urticaria, rare cases of severe angioedema, face swelling, tongue swelling, pharyngeal edema and dyspnea).[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Instillation site painCommon (1% to 10%): Instillation site irritation, instillation site erythemaUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Instillation site reaction, instillation site discomfort[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Restasis (cyclosporine ophthalmic)." Allergan Inc, Irvine, CA. 
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
It is possible that some side effects of Restasis may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Burning or other discomfort of the eye


Blurred vision
clear or yellow fluid from eye
difficulty reading
 eye pain
feeling of having something in the eye 
halos around lights
 itching skin
redness of the white part of your eyes or inside of your eyelids
sticky or matted eyelashes 
stinging
watery eye

