More frequent side effects include: anxiety, dizziness, drowsiness, dyspepsia, fatigue, increased creatine phosphokinase, nasopharyngitis, tremor, weight gain, hypersomnia, and sedation.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, brexpiprazole (the active ingredient contained in Rexulti) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Some brexpiprazole side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most common adverse reactions are weight gain and akathisia.
Common (1% to 10%): Weight gain, increased appetite, elevated fasting blood glucose
In 6-week fixed-dose trials in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) receiving this drug plus an antidepressant and in patients with schizophrenia receiving this drug, the proportion of patients with shifts in fasting blood glucose (FBG) from normal or borderline, to high were similar compared with placebo-treated patients.  In long-term, open-label studies, 5% (MDD) and 8% (schizophrenia) of patients with normal baseline FBGs experienced a shift to high, while 25% (MDD) and 17% (schizophrenia) of patients with baseline borderline FBGs experienced a shift to high.  In 6-week fixed-dose trials in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) receiving this drug plus an antidepressant and in patients with schizophrenia receiving this drug, the proportion of patients with changes in fasting total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and HDL cholesterol were similar compared with placebo-treated patients.  For patients with MDD, changes in fasting triglycerides from normal to high were reported in 5%, 13%, and 9% of patients receiving this drug at 1 mg/day, 2 mg/day, and 3 mg/day, respectively, compared with 6% of placebo-treated patients; for patients with schizophrenia, the change was 10%, 8%, and 10%, in patients receiving 1 mg/day, 2 mg/day, and 4 mg/day, respectively, compared with 6% in placebo-treated patients.  In long-term open-label depression studies, 4% of patients discontinued this drug due to weight gain.  Mean change from baseline weight was 2.9 kg at week 26 and 3.1 kg at week 52.  A 7% or greater increase in body weight was observed in 30% of patients and 4% demonstrated a 7% or greater decrease in body weight.  In long-term open-label schizophrenia studies, 0.6% of patients discontinued this drug due to weight gain.  Mean change from baseline weight was 1.3 kg at week 26 and 2 kg at week 52.  A 7% or greater increase in body weight was observed in 20% of patients and 10% demonstrated a 7% or greater decrease in body weight.
Common (1% to 10%): Constipation, dyspepsia, diarrhea, nausea, dry mouth, salivary hypersecretion, abdominal pain, flatulence
Frequency not reported: Rash, facial swelling, urticaria, anaphylaxis
In clinical trials in patients with major depressive disorder, the incidence of EPS-related adverse reactions, excluding akathisia, was 6% (3% in placebo patients).  Akathisia occurred in 9% of patients (2% in placebo patients).  The incidence of akathisia was dose-related.  In clinical trials in patients with schizophrenia, the incidence of EPS-related adverse reactions, excluding akathisia, was 5% (4% in placebo patients).  Akathisia occurred in 6% of patients (5% in placebo patients).
Common (1% to 10%): Akathisia, headache, somnolence, tremor, dizziness, sedation, extrapyramidal-related events (excluding akathisia)
Common (1% to 10%): Anxiety, restlessness, abnormal dreams, insomnia
The incidence of restlessness was dose-related in patients with major depressive disorder receiving this drug in combination with an antidepressant.
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Orthostatic hypotension
Common (1% to 10%): Hyperhidrosis
Common (1% to 10%): Decreased blood cortisol, increased blood prolactin
Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infection
Common (1% to 10%): Increased blood creatine phosphokinase, myalgia
Common (1% to 10%): Blurred vision
Common (1% to 10%): Fatigue
Common (1% to 10%): Nasopharyngitis
It is possible that some side effects of Rexulti may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Chills
cold sweats
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from lying or sitting position
fainting
Black, tarry stools
changes in behavior
chest pain
convulsions
cough or hoarseness
difficulty breathing
fast heartbeat
fever with or without chills
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
high fever
inability to move eyes
increased blinking or spasms of the eyelid
increased sweating
lip smacking or puckering
loss of bladder control
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
puffing of the cheeks
rapid or worm-like movements of the tongue
severe muscle stiffness
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
sticking out of the tongue
swollen glands
thoughts of killing oneself
trouble breathing, speaking, or swallowing
uncontrolled chewing movements
uncontrolled movements of the arms and legs
uncontrolled twisting movements of the neck, trunk, arms, or legs
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual facial expressions
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusually pale skin
Acid or sour stomach
belching
headache
heartburn
inability to sit still
indigestion
muscle aches
need to keep moving
restlessness
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sore throat
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
stuffy or runny nose
weight gain
Bloated or full feeling
bloody or cloudy urine
blurred vision
diarrhea
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
difficulty with moving
dizziness
dry mouth
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
fear or nervousness
frequent urge to urinate
increased appetite
increased sweating
joint pain
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pains or stiffness
passing gas
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
swollen joints
trouble sleeping