Generic Name: fibrinogen
Applies to fibrinogen: intravenous powder for solution
As well as its needed effects, fibrinogen (the active ingredient contained in RiaSTAP) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 

If any of the following side effects occur while taking fibrinogen, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some fibrinogen side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to fibrinogen: intravenous powder for injection
Cardiovascular side effects have included thromboembolic episodes, including myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis, and arterial thrombosis.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included allergic-anaphylactic reactions (including rash and dyspnea).[Ref]
General side effects have included chills, fever, nausea, and vomiting.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. RiaSTAP (fibrinogen)." CSL Behring, King of Prussia, PA. 
It is possible that some side effects of RiaSTAP may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Fever


Anxiety
chest pain or discomfort
chills
cough
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness or lightheadedness
fainting
fast heartbeat
nausea
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
pain, redness, or swelling in the arm or leg
pains in the chest, groin, or legs, especially in the calves of the legs
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
severe headaches of sudden onset
skin rash, hives, or itching
sudden loss of coordination
sudden onset of shortness of breath for no apparent reason
sudden onset of slurred speech
sudden vision changes
sweating
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting


Headache

