Generic Name: benzoyl peroxide topical
Applies to benzoyl peroxide topical: topical bar, topical cream, topical foam, topical gel/jelly, topical liquid, topical lotion, topical pad, topical soap, topical solution
As well as its needed effects, benzoyl peroxide topical (the active ingredient contained in Riax) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking benzoyl peroxide topical, check with your doctor immediately:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking benzoyl peroxide topical, get emergency help immediately:

Some benzoyl peroxide topical side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to benzoyl peroxide topical: compounding powder, topical bar, topical cream, topical foam, topical gel, topical kit, topical liquid, topical lotion, topical pad
Very common (10% or more): Peeling, application site erythemaCommon (1% to 10%): Dryness, pruritus, contact sensitization reactionsUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Burning sensationFrequency not reported: Contact dermatitis, application site rash, application site discoloration, application site reactions (irritation and pain)[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Allergic reactions, including application site hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis[Ref]
The most commonly reported side effects were peeling and application site erythema.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Swelling of the face[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Triaz (benzoyl peroxide topical)." Medicis Dermatatologics Inc, Phoenix, AZ. 
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
It is possible that some side effects of Riax may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Painful irritation of skin, including burning, blistering, crusting, itching, severe redness, or swelling
skin rash


Difficult breathing
fainting
hives
itching
swelling of the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
tightness in the throat


Burning, itching, scaling, redness, or swelling of skin (severe)


Dryness or peeling of the skin (may occur after a few days)
feeling of warmth, mild stinging, and redness of the skin

