Commonly reported side effects of ribavirin include: hemolytic anemia, decreased hemoglobin, insomnia, dyspnea, lack of concentration, emotional lability, and irritability. Other side effects include: nervousness.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to ribavirin: oral capsule, oral solution, oral tablet
Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, ribavirin may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking ribavirin, check with your doctor immediately:
Some ribavirin side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to ribavirin: compounding powder, inhalation powder for reconstitution, oral capsule, oral solution, oral tablet
The most common serious or life-threatening side effects induced or aggravated by ribavirin tablets in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a have included depression, suicide, relapse of drug abuse/overdose, and bacterial infections in less than 1% of patients and hepatic decompensation in 2% of chronic hepatitis C (CHC)-HIV coinfected patients.  The most common serious side effect in CHC monoinfected (3%) and CHC-HIV coinfected (5%) patients receiving peginterferon alfa-2a alone or in combination with ribavirin tablets was bacterial infection (e.g., sepsis, osteomyelitis, endocarditis, pyelonephritis, pneumonia).  Common side effects reported in CHC-HIV coinfected patients receiving ribavirin tablets in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a have included neutropenia, anemia, thrombocytopenia, weight decrease, and mood alteration.The most common side effects reported in patients receiving ribavirin capsules/oral solution in combination with peginterferon alfa-2b or interferon alfa-2b were injection site inflammation/reaction, fatigue/asthenia, headache, rigors, fevers, nausea, myalgia, and anxiety/emotional lability/irritability.  The most common serious side effects associated with peginterferon alfa-2b in combination with ribavirin capsules/oral solution were depression and suicidal ideation in less than 1% of patients.  The most common fatal side effects reported in patients receiving peginterferon alfa-2b in combination with ribavirin capsules/oral solution were cardiac arrest, suicidal ideation, and suicide attempt in less than 1% of patients.[Ref]
Mechanically ventilated patients may be predisposed to respiratory deterioration.Severe hypoxia was described in a case report of a previously healthy infant who experienced a dramatic drop in transcutaneous oxygen within 1 minute of receiving ribavirin.  Oxygen levels returned to normal promptly following discontinuation of therapy.  However, the infant later died, and postmortem examination revealed a high pulmonary arterial pressure and a patent ductus arteriosus.  A definitive causal relationship was not established, and equipment failure was not specifically ruled out by the authors.Most signs and symptoms reported in exposed health care workers resolved within minutes to hours of stopping close exposure to aerosolized ribavirin.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects associated with oral ribavirin in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a, peginterferon alfa-2b, or interferon alfa-2b have included dyspnea (up to 26%), cough (up to 23%), and exertional dyspnea (up to 7%).  Pharyngitis (up to 13%), rhinitis (up to 8%), and sinusitis (up to 12%) have been reported with ribavirin capsules/oral solution in combination with peginterferon alfa-2b or interferon alfa-2b.  Pulmonary symptoms (including dyspnea, pulmonary infiltrates, pneumonitis, pulmonary hypertension, pneumonia, and fatal pneumonia), sarcoidosis, and exacerbation of sarcoidosis have been reported with oral ribavirin in combination with alpha interferon.  Pulmonary hypertension has been reported during postmarketing experience with ribavirin capsules/oral solution in combination with interferon alfa-2b or peginterferon alfa-2b.  Significant deterioration of pulmonary function in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or asthma and minor pulmonary function abnormalities in healthy volunteers have been reported with aerosolized ribavirin.  Asthmatic patients have also reported dyspnea and chest soreness with aerosolized ribavirin.  Worsening of respiratory status, bronchospasm, hypoventilation, cyanosis, dyspnea, bronchoconstriction, bacterial pneumonia, cough, pneumothorax, pulmonary edema, apnea, atelectasis, hypoxia, and ventilator dependence have been reported with aerosolized ribavirin.  Rhinitis and pharyngitis, as well as several cases of bronchospasm and/or chest pain (usually in individuals with underlying reactive airway disease), have been reported in health care workers exposed to aerosolized ribavirin.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included reactions such as urticaria, angioedema, bronchoconstriction, and anaphylaxis in patients treated with alfa interferon and ribavirin.  Severe skin reactions (including vesiculobullous eruptions, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and exfoliative dermatitis/erythroderma) have been reported in patients treated with peginterferon alfa-2a alone or in combination with ribavirin tablets.  Serious skin reactions have been reported during postmarketing experience in patients treated with peginterferon alfa-2a.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included rash and skin irritation from prolonged drug contact.  Alopecia (up to 36%), pruritus (up to 29%), dermatitis (up to 16%), dry skin (up to 24%), increased sweating (up to 11%), rash (up to 34%), and eczema (up to 5%) have been associated with oral ribavirin in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a, peginterferon alfa-2b, or interferon alfa-2b.  Grover's disease has been reported in a 55-year-old man 2 weeks after the start of ribavirin therapy.  A photoallergic skin reaction was reported to occur 4 months after initiation of ribavirin treatment, and recurred approximately 24 hours after reexposure to ribavirin.  Skin disorders associated with ribavirin tablets in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a have included lichenoid eruptions and maculopapular rashes.  Rash has been reported in patients treated with and health care workers exposed to aerosolized ribavirin.  Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported during postmarketing experience with ribavirin tablets in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a.[Ref]
Grover's disease (suprabasal transient acantholytic dermatosis) secondary to ribavirin use was confirmed upon drug rechallenge in a 55-year-old man with chronic active hepatitis C.Rash associated with aerosolized ribavirin usually resolved within hours of stopping treatment in patients and within minutes to hours of stopping close exposure in health care workers.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included angina, arrhythmia, and pulmonary embolism in less than 1% of patients treated with peginterferon alfa-2a alone or in combination with ribavirin tablets.  Fatal and nonfatal myocardial infarctions have been reported in patients with anemia due to ribavirin capsules/oral solution.  Cardiac arrest, hypotension, bradycardia, bigeminy, tachycardia, hypertension (usually slight increases in blood pressure), and digitalis toxicity have been reported with aerosolized ribavirin.[Ref]
Bigeminy, bradycardia, and tachycardia have been reported in patients with underlying congenital heart disease.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects associated with oral ribavirin in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a, peginterferon alfa-2b, or interferon alfa-2b have included anemia (up to 35%), lymphopenia (up to 14%), neutropenia (up to 40%), thrombocytopenia (up to 8%), and leukopenia (up to 10%).  Hemolytic anemia is the most significant toxicity of ribavirin.  Aplastic anemia and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura have been reported in less than 1% of patients treated with peginterferon alfa-2a alone or in combination with ribavirin tablets.  Pancytopenia (marked decreases in red blood cells, neutrophils, and platelets) and bone marrow suppression have been reported following concomitant administration of pegylated interferon plus oral ribavirin and azathioprine.  Aplastic anemia has been reported during postmarketing experience with ribavirin capsules/oral solution in combination with interferon alfa-2b or peginterferon alfa-2b.  Pure red cell aplasia has been reported during postmarketing experience with oral ribavirin in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a, peginterferon alfa-2b, or interferon alfa-2b.  Cases of anemia (type unspecified), reticulocytosis, and hemolytic anemia associated with aerosolized ribavirin have been reported during postmarketing experience and have been reversible with drug discontinuation.[Ref]
Hemolytic anemia is the primary toxicity of ribavirin therapy.  Hemoglobin levels generally declined within the first 1 to 2 weeks of oral therapy.  Cardiac and pulmonary adverse effects associated with anemia have been reported in 10% of patients.Hemoglobin less than 10 g/dL was reported in 13% of patients receiving ribavirin tablets in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a.  Additional laboratory abnormalities during treatment with ribavirin tablets in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a or interferon alfa-2b have included decreased neutrophils (1000 to less than 1500 cells/mm3: up to 38%; 500 to less than 1000 cells/mm3: up to 49%; less than 500 cells/mm3: up to 5%), platelets (50,000 to less than 75,000 cells/mm3: up to 11%; 20,000 to less than 50,000 cells/mm3: up to 5%), and hemoglobin (8.5 to 9.9 g/dL: 11%; less than 8.5 g/dL: up to 2%).Changes in laboratory values during treatment with ribavirin capsules/oral solution in combination with peginterferon alfa-2b or interferon alfa-2b have included decreased hemoglobin (9.5 to 10.9 g/dL: up to 32%; 8 to 9.4 g/dL: up to 5%; 6.5 to 7.9 g/dL: up to 0.2%), leukocytes [2 to 2.9 x 10(9)/L: up to 46%; 1.5 to 1.9 x 10(9)/L: up to 24%; 1 to 1.4 x 10(9)/L: up to 5%], neutrophils [1 to 1.49 x 10(9)/L: up to 42%; 0.75 to 0.99 x 10(9)/L: up to 25%; 0.5 to 0.74 x 10(9)/L: up to 18%; less than 0.5 x 10(9)/L: up to 11%], and platelets [70 to 99 x 10(9)/L: up to 15%; 50 to 69 x 10(9)/L: up to 3%; 30 to 49 x 10(9)/L: up to 0.2%; less than 30 x 10(9)/L: up to 1%].[Ref]
Ocular side effects associated with oral ribavirin in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a, peginterferon alfa-2b, or interferon alfa-2b have included blurred vision (up to 6%).  Corneal ulcer has been reported in less than 1% of patients treated with peginterferon alfa-2a alone or in combination with ribavirin tablets.  Conjunctivitis (up to 5%) has been reported with ribavirin capsules/oral solution in combination with peginterferon alfa-2b or interferon alfa-2b.  Serous retinal detachment has been reported during postmarketing experience with oral ribavirin in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a, interferon alfa-2b, or peginterferon alfa-2b.  Eye irritation and conjunctivitis have been reported in patients treated with and health care workers exposed to aerosolized ribavirin.  Lacrimation has been reported in health care workers exposed to aerosolized ribavirin.  Damage to contact lenses after prolonged close exposure to aerosolized ribavirin has also been reported.[Ref]
Conjunctivitis associated with aerosolized ribavirin usually resolved within hours of stopping treatment in patients.  Most signs and symptoms reported in exposed health care workers resolved within minutes to hours of stopping close exposure to aerosolized ribavirin.Eye and conjunctival irritation resolved spontaneously when the caregivers left the hospital.  In five of six cases, the caregivers were wearing contact lenses.  After the staff stopped wearing contact lenses while caring for patients receiving aerosolized ribavirin, the reactions did not occur.[Ref]
Most signs and symptoms reported in exposed health care workers resolved within minutes to hours of stopping close exposure to aerosolized ribavirin.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects associated with oral ribavirin in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a, peginterferon alfa-2b, or interferon alfa-2b have included nausea (up to 47%), nausea and vomiting (up to 29%), diarrhea (up to 22%), vomiting (up to 14%), abdominal pain (up to 13%), dry mouth (up to 12%), dyspepsia (up to 16%), and constipation (5%).  Peptic ulcer, gastrointestinal bleeding, pancreatitis, and colitis have been reported in less than 1% of patients treated with peginterferon alfa-2a alone or in combination with ribavirin tablets.  Nausea has been reported in health care workers exposed to aerosolized ribavirin.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects associated with oral ribavirin in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a, peginterferon alfa-2b, or interferon alfa-2b have included myalgia (up to 64%), arthralgia (up to 34%), musculoskeletal pain (up to 28%), and back pain (5%).  Myositis has been reported in less than 1% of patients treated with peginterferon alfa-2a alone or in combination with ribavirin tablets.  At least 6 cases of mild to moderate gout have been reported with ribavirin capsules/oral solution in combination with peginterferon alfa-2b or interferon alfa-2b.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects associated with oral ribavirin in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a, peginterferon alfa-2b, or interferon alfa-2b have included headache (up to 66%), dizziness (excluding vertigo; 26%), and memory impairment (up to 6%).  Peripheral neuropathy, coma, and cerebral hemorrhage have been reported in less than 1% of patients treated with peginterferon alfa-2a alone or in combination with ribavirin tablets.  Taste perversion (up to 9%) has been reported with ribavirin capsules/oral solution in combination with peginterferon alfa-2b or interferon alfa-2b.  Hearing impairment and hearing loss have been reported during postmarketing experience with ribavirin tablets in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a.  Vertigo and hearing disorder have been reported during postmarketing experience with ribavirin capsules/oral solution in combination with interferon alfa-2b or peginterferon alfa-2b.  Headache and dizziness have been reported in health care workers exposed to aerosolized ribavirin.  Seizures have been reported with experimental intravenous ribavirin.[Ref]
Most signs and symptoms reported in exposed health care workers resolved within minutes to hours of stopping close exposure to aerosolized ribavirin.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects associated with oral ribavirin in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a, peginterferon alfa-2b, or interferon alfa-2b have included anorexia (up to 32%) and weight decrease (up to 29%).  Diabetes mellitus has been reported in less than 1% of patients treated with peginterferon alfa-2a alone or in combination with ribavirin tablets.  Falsely low hemoglobin A1c levels have been reported.  Dehydration has been reported during postmarketing experience with ribavirin tablets in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a.  Diabetes has been reported during postmarketing experience with ribavirin capsules/oral solution in combination with interferon alfa-2b or peginterferon alfa-2b.[Ref]
Falsely low hemoglobin A1c levels may be due to ribavirin-induced hemolysis decreasing the number of circulating glycosylated hemoglobin molecules.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects associated with oral ribavirin in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a, peginterferon alfa-2b, or interferon alfa-2b have included irritability/anxiety/nervousness/emotional lability (up to 47%), insomnia (up to 41%), depression (up to 36%), concentration impairment (up to 21%), mood alteration (up to 9%), and agitation (up to 8%).  Suicide, suicidal ideation, psychosis, aggression, anxiety, drug abuse/overdose, psychotic disorder, and hallucination have been reported in less than 1% of patients treated with peginterferon alfa-2a alone or in combination with ribavirin tablets.  Impairment of desire and the potential to affect sexual satisfaction have been reported with ribavirin tablets in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a in male patients.[Ref]
Endocrine side effects associated with oral ribavirin in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a, peginterferon alfa-2b, or interferon alfa-2b have included hypothyroidism (up to 5%).[Ref]
Other side effects frequently associated with ribavirin tablets in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a have included influenza-like symptoms (such as fatigue, pyrexia, myalgia, headache, and rigors).  Fatigue/asthenia (up to 70%), pyrexia (up to 55%), rigors (up to 48%), chills (up to 39%), influenza-like illness (up to 18%), unspecified pain (up to 13%), right upper quadrant pain (up to 12%), pain (up to 10%), chest pain (up to 9%), and malaise (up to 6%) have been associated with oral ribavirin in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a, peginterferon alfa-2b, or interferon alfa-2b.  Hyperuricemia (in association with hemolysis; up to 38%) and flushing (up to 4%) have been reported with ribavirin capsules/oral solution in combination with peginterferon alfa-2b or interferon alfa-2b.  Asthenia has been reported with experimental intravenous ribavirin.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included hepatic dysfunction, fatty liver, and cholangitis in less than 1% of patients treated with peginterferon alfa-2a alone or in combination with ribavirin tablets.  Hepatic decompensation has been reported in 2% of CHC-HIV coinfected patients receiving peginterferon alfa-2a in combination with ribavirin tablets.  Hyperbilirubinemia (in association with hemolysis; up to 14%), hepatomegaly (4%), and increased ALT have been reported with ribavirin capsules/oral solution in combination with peginterferon alfa-2b or interferon alfa-2b.[Ref]
Changes in laboratory values during treatment with ribavirin capsules/oral solution in combination with peginterferon alfa-2b or interferon alfa-2b have included increased total bilirubin (1.5 to 3 mg/dL: up to 32%; 3.1 to 6 mg/dL: up to 3%; 6.1 to 12 mg/dL: up to 0.4%) and ALT (2 x baseline: up to 0.6%; 2.1 to 5 x baseline: up to 3%).[Ref]
Immunologic side effects associated with peginterferon alfa-2a alone or in combination with ribavirin tablets have included bacterial infection (e.g., sepsis, osteomyelitis, endocarditis, pyelonephritis, pneumonia) in 3% of CHC and 5% of CHC-HIV patients and autoimmune phenomena (such as hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, sarcoidosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis) in less than 1% of patients.  Resistance mechanism disorders (overall: up to 12%), including viral infection (12%) and fungal infection (up to 6%), have been associated with oral ribavirin in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a, peginterferon alfa-2b, or interferon alfa-2b.  Liver and renal graft rejections have been reported during postmarketing experience with ribavirin tablets in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects associated with ribavirin tablets in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a have included sexual dysfunction in male patients.  Menstrual disorder has been reported with ribavirin capsules/oral solution in combination with peginterferon alfa-2b or interferon alfa-2b.[Ref]
Local side effects have included injection site reactions (up to 58%) in patients treated with oral ribavirin in combination with interferon alfa-2b, peginterferon alfa-2b, or peginterferon alfa-2a.  Injection site inflammation (up to 25%) has been reported with ribavirin capsules/oral solution in combination with peginterferon alfa-2b or interferon alfa-2b.  Skin disorders associated with ribavirin tablets in combination with peginterferon alfa-2a have included cutaneous necrosis at peginterferon alfa-2a injection sites.  Hyperpigmentation around/over peginterferon alfa-2a injection sites has been reported.[Ref]
1. "Multum Information Services, Inc. Expert Review Panel"  
2. Dove LM,  Rosen RC,  Ramcharran D, et al. "Decline in male sexual desire, function, and satisfaction during and after antiviral therapy for chronic hepatitis C." Gastroenterology 137 (2009): 873-84
3. "Product Information. Virazole (ribavirin)." ICN Pharmaceuticals Inc, Cost Mesa, CA. 
4. "Product Information. Copegus (ribavirin)." Roche Laboratories, Nutley, NJ. 
5. Meert KL, Sarnaik AP, Gelmini MJ, Lieh-Lai MW "Aerosolized ribavirin in mechanically ventilated children with respiratory syncytial virus lower respiratory tract disease: a prospective, double-blind, randomized trial." Crit Care Med 22 (1994): 566-72
6. Johnson DC "Antiviral drugs for common respiratory diseases." Postgrad Med 83 (1988): 136-48
7. Janai HK, Marks MI, Zaleska M, Stutman HR "Ribavirin: adverse drug reactions, 1986 to 1988." Pediatr Infect Dis J 9 (1990): 209-11
8. Hebert MF "Ribavirin." Bulletin of the Hospital Pharmacy and The Drug Information Analysis Service University of California 36 (1988): 1-4
9. Rodriguez WJ, Parrott RH "Ribavirin aerosol treatment of serious respiratory syncytial virus infection in infants." Infect Dis Clin North Am 1 (1987): 425-39
10. Shults RA, Baron S, Decker J, Deitchman SD, Conner JD "Health care worker exposure to aerosolized ribavirin: biological and air monitoring." J Occup Environ Med 38 (1996): 257-63
11. Edelson PJ "Reactions to ribavirin." Pediatr Infect Dis J 10 (1991): 82
12. Antunes I, Azevedo F, MesquitaGuimaraes J, Resende C, Fernandes N, Macedo G "Grover's disease secondary to ribavirin." Br J Dermatol 142 (2000): 1257-8
13. Lin J,  Lott JP,  Amorosa VK,  Kovarik CL "Iatrogenic hyperpigmentation in chronically infected hepatitis C patients treated with pegylated interferon and ribavirin." J Am Acad Dermatol 60 (2009): 882-3
14. StryjekKaminska D, Ochsendorf F, Roder C, Wolter M, Zeuzem S "Photoallergic skin reaction to ribavirin." Am J Gastroenterol 94 (1999): 1686-8
15. Simon-Talero M,  Buti M,  Esteban R "Severe anaemia related to oseltamivir during treatment of chronic hepatitis C: a  new drug interaction?" J Viral Hepat 19 Suppl 1 (2012): 14-7
16. Balestrieri C,  Serra G,  Cauli C,  Chessa L,  Balestrieri A,  Farci P "Treatment of chronic hepatitis C in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency: is ribavirin harmful?" Blood 107 (2006): 3409-10
17. Robertson M "Artificially low HbA1c associated with treatment with ribavirin." BMJ 336 (2008): 505
18. "Product Information. Rebetol (ribavirin)." Schering-Plough Corporation, Kenilworth, NJ. 
19. Gross BN,  Cross LB,  Foard JC,  Wood YA "Falsely low hemoglobin A(1c) levels in a patient receiving ribavirin and peginterferon alfa-2b for hepatitis C." Pharmacotherapy 29 (2009): 121-3
20. Soriano V,  Puoti M,  Sulkowski M, et al. "Care of patients coinfected with HIV and hepatitis C virus: 2007 updated recommendations from the HCV-HIV International Panel." AIDS 21 (2007): 1073-89
21. Barry W, Cockburn F, Cornall R, Price JF, Sutherland G, Vardag A "Ribavirin aerosol for acute bronchiolitis." Arch Dis Child 61 (1986): 593-7
22. Infectious Diseases and Immunization Committee, Canadian Paediatric Society. "Ribavirin: indications for use in pediatrics." Can Med Assoc J 135 (1986): 1351-2
It is possible that some side effects of ribavirin may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
inhalation powder for solution

Anxiety
black, tarry stools
body aches or pain
chest pain
congestion
cough or hoarseness
crying
depersonalization
diarrhea
difficult or labored breathing
discouragement
dry mouth
dryness of the throat
dysphoria
euphoria
feeling sad or empty
feeling unusually cold
fever or chills
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
hyperventilation
irregular heartbeats
irritability
joint pain
lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
lower back or side pain
mental depression
muscle aches and pains
nausea
nervousness
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
paranoia
poor concentration
quick to react or overreact emotionally
rapidly changing moods
restlessness
right upper abdominal or stomach pain
runny nose
shaking
shivering
shortness of breath
sleeplessness
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
sweating
tender, swollen glands in the neck
tightness in the chest
trouble with concentrating
trouble with sleeping
trouble with swallowing
troubled breathing with exertion
unable to sleep
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
voice changes
vomiting
wheezing


Bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
constipation
depressed mood
dry skin and hair
feeling cold
hair loss
husky voice
muscle cramps and stiffness
pinpoint red spots on the skin
right upper abdominal or stomach fullness
slowed heartbeat
weight gain


Blistering, flaking, or peeling of the skin


Acid or sour stomach
being forgetful
belching
blurred vision
bone pain
change in taste or bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
cracked, scaly skin
crusting, irritation, itching, or reddening of the skin
difficulty with moving
dizziness or lightheadedness
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
hair loss or thinning of the hair
heartburn
indigestion
lack or loss of strength
menstrual changes
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
rash
sensation of spinning
sneezing
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
stuffy nose
swelling
swollen joints
weight loss


Back pain
burning, dry, or itching eyes
discharge, excessive tearing
feeling of warmth
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
redness, pain, swelling of the eye, eyelid, or inner lining of the eyelid
skin rash, encrusted, scaly, and oozing


Change in hearing
loss of hearing

