As well as its needed effects, rifampin (the active ingredient contained in Rifadin) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Some rifampin side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea and dyspepsia in 2% of patients.  Heartburn, anorexia, vomiting, flatulence, cramps and diarrhea have also been observed.  Rare cases of pill-induced esophagitis and pseudomembranous colitis have been associated with the use of rifampin (the active ingredient contained in Rifadin) 
Hyperbilirubinemia and hepatitis have been reported in up to 3% of patients.  Approximately 50% of hepatotoxicity has been observed during the first month of therapy.If rifampin (the active ingredient contained in Rifadin) is essential in the treatment of patients with liver disease, extreme caution and strict medical supervision should be exercised.  Baseline liver function tests should be obtained and monitored every two weeks during therapy.
Hepatic side effects have included cases of hepatitis and severe hepatotoxicity with fatal outcome.  Fatal cases of hepatotoxicity have been observed in patients with existing liver dysfunction and in patients with normal liver function who are also taking other hepatotoxic drugs.  Jaundice, hepatitis, transient abnormalities in liver function tests (e.g., elevations in serum bilirubin, BSP, alkaline phosphatase, serum transaminases), and hyperbilirubinemia have been reported.  Baseline and periodic liver function testing are recommended for all patients on long-term rifampin therapy.
The 'flu-like syndrome' generally occurs with intermittent dosing of rifampin (the active ingredient contained in Rifadin)  in patients with poor adherence to daily rifampin therapy, and when daily rifampin is resumed after a drug free period.
Immunologic side effects have included flu-like syndrome presenting as fever, malaise, nausea, vomiting, petechiae and myalgias.  This syndrome is probably an immune-mediated reaction.  Rarely, dyspnea and shock have been associated with once-daily rifampin therapy.
Renal side effects have included elevations in BUN and serum uric acid.  Hemoglobinuria, hematuria, interstitial nephritis, acute tubular necrosis, renal insufficiency, and acute renal failure have been reported.  These events are generally associated with an immune-mediated reaction which occurs after interruption in rifampin (the active ingredient contained in Rifadin) therapy.  Standard doses may produce orange-colored urine.
There have been rare case reports of reversible acute renal failure due to glomerulonephritis and renal epithelial cell injury in patients receiving rifampin.  Often in these patients other immune-mediated reactions occur, such as hemolysis and thrombocytopenia.  Antibodies to rifampin have been identified in some affected patients.  Generally these reactions occur after reintroduction of the drug following a lapse in therapy, although they have also been associated with continuous therapy.
Petechiae associated with thrombocytopenia may occur in 1% of patients who are receiving rifampin (the active ingredient contained in Rifadin)   Rifampin antibodies have been demonstrated in some of these patients.  Thrombocytopenia is seen most frequently in patients receiving weekly therapy or after a lapse in therapy, but has also been reported during daily therapy.  Decreased hemoglobin and transient leukopenia have been reported in patients who had chronic diseases and in whom other medications were given, which made it difficult to definitively determine if these adverse effects were due to rifampin.A 76-year-old male with a diagnosis of Mycobacterium kansasii pulmonary disease experienced leukocytoclastic vasculitis, thrombocytopenia, and acute renal failure coincident with rifampin therapy.  He was admitted to the hospital with a one-week history of fever, dry cough, dyspnea, oliguria, and bilateral edema in lower extremities.  He was treated for the Mycobacterium kansasii pulmonary disease with a combined preparation of isoniazid 50 mg, rifampin 250 mg, rifampin 600 mg, and pyrazinamide 1500 mg (Rifater).  On the patients admission, laboratory data showed acute renal failure (serum creatinine 9.6 mg/dL, urea 168 mg/dL) and thrombocytopenia (platelets 85 x 10 (3)/ microliter).  Other results were WBC count 13,300/ microliter, hemoglobin 13.9 g/dL, and proteinuria, with urine protein 1.5 g/L.  Pyrazinamide was discontinued and broad spectrum antimicrobials were introduced.  Two weeks after pyrazinamide was discontinued, clinical and analytical parameters normalized.  With the goal of treating Mycobacterium kansasii, a controlled trial of rifampin at increasing doses (80 mg the first day, 150 mg the second day, 200 mg the third day) was attempted a week later.  The day following reintroduction, a palpable purpura appeared, serum creatinine increased (1.9 mg/dL), and the platelet count dropped.  Rifampin was withdrawn on the fourth day; 4 days later, the serum creatinine level returned to within normal limits and skin purpura disappeared.  Skin purpura biopsy demonstrated leukocytoclastic vasculitis.  Two weeks later, the patient was discharged with normal renal function and platelet count.
Hematologic side effects have included thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, and decreased hemoglobin, in less than 1% of patients.  Thrombocytopenia has occurred primarily with high dose intermittent therapy, and after resumption of interrupted therapy.  Red cell aplasia, agranulocytosis, methemoglobinemia, and disseminated intravascular coagulation have been reported very rarely.  Hemolysis has been described as part of an immune-mediated reaction which generally occurs after interruptions in therapy.  At least one case of rifampin-related leukocytoclastic vasculitis, thrombocytopenia, and acute renal failure has been reported.
Dermatologic side effects have included cutaneous reactions that are mild and self-limiting and usually not associated with a hypersensitivity to rifampin (the active ingredient contained in Rifadin)   These reactions generally manifest as itching and flushing with or without rash.  Serious dermatologic reactions that resulted from hypersensitivity have been reported rarely.
Nervous system side effects have included headache, paresthesias, and weakness.  Other central nervous system side effects reported have included drowsiness, fatigue, ataxia, dizziness, decreased concentration, mental confusion, behavioral changes, muscular weakness, pain, and numbness.
Drug level monitoring may be necessary in patients who remain acid-fast bacilli smear positive after 3 months of directly observed therapy.  Dosage may be titrated upwards to keep the rifampin (the active ingredient contained in Rifadin) level in the therapeutic range.
Metabolic side effects have included increases in hepatic metabolism of thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3).  A fall in plasma concentration time curve of rifampin and an increase in renal clearance due to a decrease in protein-bound drug has been reported in pulmonary tuberculosis patients who are often malnourished.
Cardiovascular side effects have been reported rarely.  These have included decreased blood pressure when rifampin (the active ingredient contained in Rifadin) dosages were administered intermittently.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included urticaria, rash, pruritus, pemphigoid reaction, erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, vasculitis, eosinophilia, sore mouth, sore tongue, and conjunctivitis.  Rarely, anaphylaxis has been reported.  At least one case of multiple hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactic shock, liver injury, hemolytic anemia, acute renal failure, and disseminated intravascular coagulation have also been reported.
A 35-year-old male who was diagnosed with pulmonary tuberculosis experienced multiple hypersensitivity reactions coincident with rifampin therapy.  After being admitted to the hospital with multiple symptoms of tuberculosis, the patient was prescribed rifampin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol.  Two hours after taking the first pill of rifampin (600 mg), the patient developed anaphylactic shock, liver injury, hemolytic anemia, acute renal failure, and disseminated intravascular coagulation.  Direct and indirect antiglobulin (Coombs) tests were positive.  RFP-dependent IgG and IgM antibodies with complement fixing capability were observed in the serum.  The patient was transferred to the intensive care unit and underwent hemodialysis.  Clinical recovery and return of laboratory data to normal levels occurred over a 5-week period.  The patient was subsequently given isoniazid, pyrazinamide, ethambutol, ciprofloxacin, and recovered from tuberculosis.
Endocrine side effects have included menstrual disturbances and rare reports of adrenal insufficiency in patients with impaired adrenal function.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included myopathy and muscular weakness.
Ocular side effects have included visual disturbances.  Ocular side effects are generally limited to patients who wear contact lenses.  Rifampin (the active ingredient contained in Rifadin) can cause a red-brown or orange discoloration of tears which can stain contact lenses.
Psychiatric side effects have rarely included psychoses.
Respiratory side effects have included shortness of breath and wheezing with the use of intermittent dosage regimens.  A 'flu syndrome' may appear if rifampin (the active ingredient contained in Rifadin) is taken irregularly or if daily administration is resumed after a drug free interval.
Other side effects have rarely included edema of the face and extremities.
Fatal acute overdoses have been reported with doses ranging from 14 to 60 grams of rifampin.  Alcohol or a history of alcohol abuse was involved in some of the fatal and nonfatal cases.  The minimum acute lethal or toxic dose is not well established.
It is possible that some side effects of Rifadin may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
intravenous powder for solution
Abdominal or stomach pain
agitation
back pain
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
bruising
confusion
cough or hoarseness
coughing or vomiting blood
dark urine
darkening of the skin
decreased frequency or amount of urine
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fainting
fast heartbeat
fever with or without chills
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
headache
hives
hostility
increased blood pressure
increased thirst
irritability
lethargy
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
mental depression
nausea and vomiting
painful or difficult urination
persistent bleeding or oozing from puncture sites, mouth, or nose
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
shortness of breath
skin itching, rash, or redness
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swelling of the face, ankles, fingers, hands, or lower legs
tightness in the chest
tiredness
troubled breathing
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
weight gain
wheezing
yellow eyes or skin
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating
bone pain
chest pain
chills
cold, clammy skin
diarrhea, watery and severe, which may also be bloody
difficulty with speaking
double vision
fast heartbeat
fast, weak pulse
inability to move the arms, legs, or facial muscles
inability to speak
joint or muscle pain
lightheadedness
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
redness, soreness, or itching skin
slow speech
sores, welting, or blisters
sweating
swollen glands
unpleasant breath odor
unusual weight loss
Blurred vision
convulsions (seizures)
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
full feeling in the upper abdomen or stomach
itching
low blood pressure or slow pulse
nausea or vomiting
pain in the upper abdomen or stomach
reddish-orange to reddish-brown color of the urine, stool, saliva, sputum, sweat, and tears
swelling around the eyes or face
unconsciousness
unusual tiredness or weakness
yellow eyes or skin
Feeling that others are watching you or controlling your behavior
feeling that others can hear your thoughts
feeling, seeing, or hearing things that are not there
muscular pain, tenderness, wasting, or weakness
severe mood or mental changes
unusual behavior
Belching
bloated or full feeling
drowsiness
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
indigestion
not able to concentrate
pain or discomfort in the chest, upper stomach, or throat
weight loss