Common side effects of Rilutek include: asthenia, nausea, and increased serum alanine aminotransferase. Other side effects include: vomiting.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, riluzole (the active ingredient contained in Rilutek) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking riluzole, check with your doctor immediately:
Some riluzole side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
At least one elevation in ALT has occurred in 50% of patients receiving riluzole (the active ingredient contained in Rilutek)   An ALT greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal has occurred in approximately 2% of patients.  These elevations tend to occur within the first 3 months of treatment, are usually transient if less than 5 times the upper limit of normal, and may return to normal within 2 to 6 months if therapy is continued.  There is little experience in the management of patients whose ALT exceeds 5 times the upper limit of normal.  The manufacturer recommends discontinuing the drug if ALT exceeds 10 times the upper limit of normal or if jaundice occurs.In one patient receiving riluzole for epilepsy and concurrently taking phenobarbital and carbamazepine, clinical jaundice developed four months after starting riluzole (ALT 26 X ULN, AST 17 X ULN, and bilirubin 11 X ULN).  Liver function tests returned to normal 7 weeks after discontinuing riluzole therapy.
Hepatic side effects including elevations in alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and jaundice have been reported.  Cases of clinical hepatitis associated with riluzole have been reported, including one with a fatal outcome.
Most gastrointestinal side effects have been dose-related.  Nausea and abdominal pain commonly resulted in discontinuation of riluzole (the active ingredient contained in Rilutek) during clinical trials.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea (16.3%), abdominal pain (5.1%), vomiting (4.2%), anorexia (3.2%), and diarrhea (2.9%).  Two cases of pancreatitis have also been reported.
Musculoskeletal side effects including asthenia (which appears to be dose-related) (19.2%) and muscle stiffness have been reported.
Respiratory side effects including cases of interstitial lung disease have been reported in patients treated with riluzole (the active ingredient contained in Rilutek)  some of them severe.  Upon further investigation, many of these cases were hypersensitivity pneumonitis.
Nervous system side effects appear to be dose-related.  Dizziness occurred more frequently in female patients.
Nervous system side effects including dizziness (3.8%), vertigo (1.9%), circumoral paresthesias (1.6%) and somnolence (1.9%) have been reported.
Hematologic side effects including anemia and neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count less than 500/mm3) have rarely been reported.  A case of methemoglobinemia has also been reported.
Cardiovascular side effects including mild to moderate increases in blood pressure have been reported.
Hypersensitivity side effects including anaphylaxis have been reported.
It is possible that some side effects of Rilutek may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
blurred vision
dark urine
difficult, burning, or painful urination
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
flu-like symptoms
frequent urge to urinate
headache
increased cough
itching skin
lower back or side pain
nervousness
persistent anorexia
pounding in the ears
right upper quadrant tenderness
slow heartbeat
yellow eyes or skin
Black, tarry, stools
chills
cough
decreased frequency or amount of urine
difficult breathing
fever
increased thirst
loss of appetite
nausea
pale skin
sore throat
swelling of the face, fingers, or lower legs
ulcers, sores, or white spots in the mouth
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
weight gain
Lack or loss of strength
Abdominal or stomach pain
bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
difficulty moving
dizziness or lightheadedness
dry mouth
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
full feeling
muscle pain or stiffness
pain in the joints
passing gas
rapid weight gain
sensation of spinning
skin rash, encrusted, scaly and oozing
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
tingling of the hands or feet
trouble sleeping
unusual weight gain or loss