Applies to rimexolone ophthalmic: ophthalmic suspension
As well as its needed effects, rimexolone ophthalmic may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking rimexolone ophthalmic, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some rimexolone ophthalmic side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to rimexolone ophthalmic: ophthalmic suspension
The most commonly reported side effects were blurred vision, ocular discharge, discomfort, ocular pain, increased intraocular pressure, foreign body sensation, hyperemia, and pruritus.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Blurred vision, ocular discharge, discomfort, ocular pain, increased intraocular pressure, foreign body sensation, hyperemia, pruritusFrequency not reported: Sticky sensation, increased fibrin, dry eye, conjunctival edema, corneal staining, keratitis, tearing, photophobia, edema, irritation, corneal ulcer, browache, lid margin crusting, corneal edema, infiltrate, corneal erosion, optic nerve damage, visual acuity and field defects, posterior subcapsular cataract formation, secondary ocular infection from pathogens including herpes simplex, perforation of the globe where there is thinning of the cornea or sclera[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Headache, taste perversion[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Rhinitis, pharyngitis[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hypotension[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Vexol (rimexolone ophthalmic)." Alcon Laboratories Inc, Fort Worth, TX. 
It is possible that some side effects of rimexolone ophthalmic may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Blurred vision or other change in vision
 eye discharge, discomfort, dryness, or tearing
 eye redness, irritation, or pain
feeling of something in the eye
itching
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
 swelling of the lining of the eyelids


Browache
change in taste
crusting in corner of eye
dizziness, lightheadedness, or faintness
headache 
increased sensitivity of eyes to light
sticky sensation of eyelids
unusual tiredness or weakness

