Common side effects of Riomet include: diarrhea, nausea and vomiting, and flatulence. Other side effects include: asthenia.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, metformin (the active ingredient contained in Riomet) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Some metformin side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Gastrointestinal events such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, and loss of appetite have been frequently reported during therapy initiation and resolve spontaneously in most cases.  Adverse events in the pediatric population appear to be similar in nature and severity to that published in adults.
Common (1% to 10%): HypoglycemiaVery rare (less than 0.01%): Lactic acidosis
Very common (10% or more): Diarrhea (53.2%), nausea/vomiting (25.5%), flatulence (12.1%)Common (1% to 10%): Indigestion, abdominal discomfort, abnormal stools, dyspepsia, loss of appetite
Very rare (less than 0.01%): Subnormal vitamin B12 levels
Common (1% to 10%): Asthenia, chills, flu syndrome, accidental injury
Very rare (less than 0.01%): Liver function test abnormalities, hepatitis
Common (1% to 10%): Chest discomfort, flushing, palpitation
Common (1% to 10%): Rash, nail disorder, increased sweating Very rare (less than 0.01%): Erythema, pruritus, urticaria
Frequency not reported: Reduction in thyrotropin (TSH) levels
Very common (10% or more): Infection (20.5%)
Common (1% to 10%): Myalgia
Common (1% to 10%): Lightheadedness, taste disturbances
Common (1% to 10%): Headache
Common (1% to 10%): Rhinitis
It is possible that some side effects of Riomet may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal or stomach discomfort
cough or hoarseness
decreased appetite
diarrhea
fast or shallow breathing
fever or chills
general feeling of discomfort
lower back or side pain
muscle pain or cramping
painful or difficult urination
sleepiness
Anxiety
blurred vision
chest discomfort
cold sweats
coma
confusion
cool, pale skin
depression
difficult or labored breathing
dizziness
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
feeling of warmth
headache
increased hunger
increased sweating
nausea
nervousness
nightmares
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
seizures
shakiness
shortness of breath
slurred speech
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
wheezing
Behavior change similar to being drunk
difficulty with concentrating
drowsiness
lack or loss of strength
restless sleep
unusual sleepiness
Acid or sour stomach
belching
bloated
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
full feeling
heartburn
indigestion
loss of appetite
metallic taste in the mouth
passing of gas
stomachache
stomach upset or pain
vomiting
weight loss
Abnormal stools
bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
change in taste
difficulty with moving
discoloration of the fingernails or toenails
flu-like symptoms
joint pain
rash
runny nose
sneezing
stuffy nose
swollen joints