More frequent side effects include: dizziness, nausea, skin rash, and urticaria.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, coagulation factor ix (the active ingredient contained in Rixubis) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Some coagulation factor ix side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Hypersensitivity side effects have included hypersensitivity reactions, including bronchospastic reactions and/or hypotension and anaphylaxis.
Hematologic side effects have included and the development of high-titer inhibitors necessitating alternative treatments to factor IX replacement therapy.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea and vomiting.
Dermatologic side effects have included hives, rash, and flushing.
Local side effects have included Injection site reaction, Injection site pain, cellulitis at IV site, and phlebitis at IV site.
Nervous system side effects have included headache, dizziness, taste perversion (altered taste), shaking, and drowsiness.
Respiratory side effects have included dry cough, hypoxia, chest tightness, and dyspnea (respiratory distress)
General side effects have included fever.
Ocular side effects have included blurred vision.
Renal side effects have e included renal infarction.
It is possible that some side effects of Rixubis may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Anxiety
blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chest pain
confusion
cough
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness or lightheadedness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fainting
fast heartbeat
hives, itching, or skin rash
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
nausea
pains in the chest, groin, or legs, especially calves of the legs
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
restlessness
severe headaches of sudden onset
sudden loss of coordination
sudden onset of shortness of breath for no apparent reason
sudden onset of slurred speech
sudden shortness of breath or troubled breathing
sudden vision changes
sweating
tenderness, pain, swelling, warmth, skin discoloration, and prominent superficial veins over affected area
tightness in the chest
unusual drowsiness, dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Change in taste
loss of taste
headache
pain in the arms or legs