As well as its needed effects, minoxidil topical (the active ingredient contained in Rogaine) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking minoxidil topical, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Minoxidil topical (the active ingredient contained in Rogaine) is generally well tolerated. Dermatological adverse events are the only side effects reported more commonly as compared to placebo.
Edema, salt and water retention, pericardial effusion, pericarditis, tamponade, tachycardia, and angina have been reported with oral minoxidil. Patients with underlying heart disease may be at increased risk for these or other cardiovascular adverse effects.
Rarely, cardiovascular side effects have included edema, chest pain, blood pressure changes, palpitations, and changes in pulse rate with minoxidil topical therapy.
Despite low levels of systemic absorption, in one study of 35 men using either topical minoxidil 2% twice a day or placebo for 6 months, minoxidil was associated with cardiac changes, such as significant increases in left ventricular end-diastolic volume, cardiac output, and left ventricular mass.
Systemic side effects are uncommon since very little minoxidil is absorbed after topical application. In one study, the serum levels after 2.5 mg twice a day oral versus 2% twice a day topical minoxidil were 32.8 and 1.7 ng per mL, respectively.Exacerbation of hair loss/alopecia has been reported.
Rare cases of generalized hypertrichosis have been associated with topically applied minoxidil. Eczema, irritant dermatitis, and allergic contact dermatitis have also been reported.
Nonspecific allergic reactions, hives, allergic rhinitis, facial swelling, and sensitivity to minoxidil topical (the active ingredient contained in Rogaine) have rarely been reported.
Headache, dizziness, faintness, and light-headedness have been reported with minoxidil topical (the active ingredient contained in Rogaine) 
Diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting have been reported during treatment with minoxidil topical (the active ingredient contained in Rogaine) 
Visual disturbances, including decreased visual acuity, have been reported.
It is possible that some side effects of Rogaine may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Itching or skin rash (continued)
Acne at site of application
burning of scalp
facial hair growth
increased hair loss
inflammation or soreness at root of hair
reddened skin
swelling of face
Blurred vision or other changes in vision
chest pain
dizziness
fainting
fast or irregular heartbeat
flushing
headache
lightheadedness 
numbness or tingling of hands, feet, or face
swelling of face, hands, feet, or lower legs
weight gain (rapid)