Common side effects of Ryanodex include: drowsiness.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, dantrolene (the active ingredient contained in Ryanodex) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.  Serious side effects are very rare when dantrolene is taken for a short time, for example, when it is used for a few days before, during, or after surgery or anesthesia to prevent or treat malignant hyperthermia. However, serious side effects may occur, especially when the medicine is taken for a long time.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking dantrolene, check with your doctor immediately:
Some dantrolene side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Nervous system side effects have commonly included drowsiness (30%), dizziness (14%), and malaise.  Speech disturbances, headache, seizures and hallucinations have been reported less frequently.
Several reports of severe constipation and abdominal distention leading to functional obstruction have been reported.
Gastrointestinal side effects have frequently included diarrhea which may be severe enough to require discontinuation.  Constipation, abdominal cramps, nausea, and vomiting have been reported less frequently.
Hematologic side effects have included aplastic anemia, leukopenia, and lymphocytic lymphoma.
Musculoskeletal side effects have commonly included weakness which is usually tolerable.  Myalgia and backache have also been reported.
Risk of hepatic injury is greater in females, patients over 35 years of age, and in patients on concurrent medications.  The severity of the reaction appears to increase with increases in dose and duration.
Hepatic side effects have included hepatic injury (1.8%), hepatitis (0.6%), and fatal hepatitis (0.3%).
Respiratory side effects have infrequently included pulmonary edema with the use of intravenous dantrolene (the active ingredient contained in Ryanodex)   Pleural effusion and pneumonitis have also been reported.
Cardiovascular side effects have infrequently included pericarditis (both with and without pleural effusion) in patients receiving oral dantrolene (the active ingredient contained in Ryanodex)   Cardiovascular side effects reported postmarketing have included heart failure.
Local side effects have included thrombophlebitis in patients receiving intravenous dantrolene (the active ingredient contained in Ryanodex) 
Dermatologic side effects have included rare reports of acne.
Ocular side effects have included visual disturbances.
Other side effects have included one case of bilateral hearing loss which was thought to have been secondary to dantrolene (the active ingredient contained in Ryanodex) treatment.
Hypersensitivity side effects reported postmarketing have included anaphylaxis.
It is possible that some side effects of Ryanodex may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
intravenous powder for solution, intravenous powder for suspension
Bloody or black, tarry stools
bloody or dark urine
bluish color changes in skin color
changes in speech
chest pain
confusion
constipation
convulsions (seizures)
decrease in frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
difficult urination
difficulty in moving
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
difficulty in swallowing
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
increased frequency of urination
increased urge to urinate during the night
joint pain
light-colored stools
lightheadedness
loss of bladder control
mental depression
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pains or stiffness
muscle spasm or jerking of all extremities
nausea and vomiting
pain in lower back
pain or burning while urinating
pain, tenderness, or changes in skin color
painful urination
severe stomach pain
shortness of breath
skin rash, hives, or itching
slow or troubled breathing
sudden decrease in amount of urine 
sudden loss of consciousness
swelling of foot or leg
swollen joints
unusual tiredness or weakness
upper right abdominal pain
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
waking to urinate at night
yellow eyes or skin
Diarrhea
dizziness
drowsiness
general feeling of discomfort or illness
muscle weakness
Abdominal or stomach cramps or discomfort
abnormal hair growth
acne-like rash
blurred or double vision or any change in vision
change in taste
chills and fever
disturbed color perception
excessive tearing
halos around lights
headache
itching skin
loss of appetite
night blindness
overbright appearance of lights
redness of skin
seeing double
skin rash, encrusted, scaly and oozing
sleeplessness
slurring of speech or other speech problems
sudden decrease in amount of urine
sweating
trouble in sleeping
tunnel vision
unable to sleep 
unusual nervousness
weight loss