Generic Name: methysergide maleate
Applies to methysergide maleate: oral tablet
General side effects including fibrotic changes have been reported in the retroperitoneal, pleuropulmonary, cardiac, and other tissues.  Retroperitoneal fibrosis is usually confined to the retroperitoneal connective tissue above the pelvic brim and may present with symptoms of malaise, fatigue, weight loss, backache, low grade fever, urinary obstruction, and vascular insufficiency.  Several cases of fibrotic plaques, simulating Peyronie's disease have also been reported.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects including fibrosis limited to the pleural and subjacent pulmonary tissues has been reported.  In such instances, patients usually present with dyspnea, tightness and pain in the chest, pleural friction rubs, and pleural effusion.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects including fibrotic changes such as nonrheumatic thickening of the aortic root and aortic and mitral valves have been reported.  Encroachment of retroperitoneal fibrosis on the aorta, inferior vena cava and their common iliac branches may result in vascular insufficiency of the lower limbs.  Intrinsic vasoconstriction of large and small arteries may occur at any stage of therapy.  Progression to ischemic tissue damage has rarely been reported.Postural hypotension and tachycardia have also been reported.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal symptoms including nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, heartburn, constipation, elevated gastric acid, and abdominal pain have been reported.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included seizure, insomnia, drowsiness, mild euphoria, dizziness, ataxia, lightheadedness, hyperesthesia, and feelings of dissociation or hallucinations.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects including facial flushing, telangiectasia, and nonspecific rashes have been reported rarely.  Increased hair loss may also occur.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included neutropenia, eosinophilia, and thrombocytopenia.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects including arthralgia and myalgia have been reported.[Ref]
Ocular side effects including mydriasis have been reported.[Ref]
Other side effects have included peripheral edema, weakness, weight gain, and fever.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Sansert (methysergide maleate)" Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, NJ. 
It is possible that some side effects of Sansert may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
