Commonly reported side effects of saxagliptin include: hypoglycemia.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, saxagliptin may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Some saxagliptin side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Commonly reported adverse reactions include respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection, and headache.  Peripheral edema was more commonly reported in patients treated with the combination saxagliptin and thiazolidinedione.
Very common (10% or more): HypoglycemiaUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Dyslipidemia, hypertriglyceridemia
Common (1% to 10%): Hypertension, peripheral edemaFrequency not reported: Heart failure
Hospitalization for heart failure occurred more frequently in patients receiving this drug compared with placebo in a cardiovascular outcomes trial that enrolled patients with established, or multiple risk factors for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (3.5% vs 2.8%).  Additionally, in the time to first event analysis, the risk of hospitalization was higher compared to placebo (Hazard Ratio 1.27; 95% confidence interval 1.07 to 1.51).
Common (1% to 10%): RashUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Dermatitis, pruritus, urticariaRare (less than 0.1%): Angioedema
In a cardiovascular outcomes trial that enrolled patients with established, or multiple risk factors for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, acute pancreatitis was confirmed in 0.2% (17 of 8240) patients receiving this drug compared with 0.1% (9 of 8173) of the placebo-treated patients.  Preexisting risk factor were identified in 88% and 100% of the drug treated patients and placebo patients, respectively.
Common (1% to 10%): Gastroenteritis, vomiting, nausea, dyspepsia, gastritis, flatulenceUncommon (0.1% to 1%): PancreatitisFrequency not reported: Abdominal painPostmarketing reports: Acute pancreatitis
Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infectionUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Erectile dysfunction (with metformin)
Common (1% to 10%): Blood creatine phosphokinase increased, anemia, decreased in absolute lymphocyte count (dose related)
Between October 2006 and December 2013, thirty-three cases of severe arthralgia have been reported to the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System Database.  Each case involved the use of 1 or more dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor.  In all cases, substantial reduction in prior activity level was reported, 10 patients were hospitalized due to disabling joint pain.  In 22 cases, symptoms appeared within 1 month of starting therapy, in 23 cases symptoms resolved less than 1 month after discontinuation.  A positive rechallenge was reported in 8 cases, with 6 cases involving use of a different DPP-4 inhibitor.  Sitagliptin had the greatest number of cases reported (n=28) followed by saxagliptin (n=5), linagliptin (n=2), alogliptin (n=1), and vildagliptin (n=2).
Common (1% to 10%): Myalgia, back painUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Arthralgia
Common (1% to 10%): Headache, dizziness
Common (1% to 10%): Fatigue
Common (1% to 10%): Anxiety, depression
Common (1% to 10%): Upper respiratory tract infection, sinusitis, nasopharyngitis, bronchitis
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Hypersensitivity reactionsRare (less than 0.1%): Anaphylactic reactions including anaphylactic shockPostmarketing reports: Anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, urticaria
It is possible that some side effects of saxagliptin may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Anxiety
bladder pain
bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
bloody or cloudy urine
blurred vision
body aches or pain
chills
cold sweats
confusion
cool, pale skin
cough
depression
difficult, burning, or painful urination
difficulty with breathing
dizziness
ear congestion
fast heartbeat
fever
frequent urge to urinate
headache
increased hunger
loss of voice
lower back or side pain
nasal congestion
nausea
nightmares
rapid weight gain
runny nose
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
sneezing
sore throat
tingling of the hands or feet
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight gain or loss
Chest pain
constipation
darkened urine
decreased urine output
difficulty with swallowing
dilated neck veins
extreme fatigue
flaking or peeling of the skin
hives or skin rash
indigestion
irregular breathing
irregular heartbeat
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
severe joint pain
swelling of face, fingers, feet, or lower leg
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing
vomiting
weight gain
yellow eyes or skin
Diarrhea
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
redness of the skin
weakness
welts