As well as its needed effects, liraglutide (the active ingredient contained in Saxenda) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking liraglutide, check with your doctor immediately:
Some liraglutide side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Chronic Weight Management:Very common (10% or more): Nausea (39.3%), diarrhea (20.9%), constipation (19.4%), vomiting (15.7%), Common (1% to 10%): Dyspepsia, abdominal pain, upper abdominal pain, gastroesophageal reflux disease, abdominal distension, eructation, flatulence, dry mouth, gastroenteritis, viral gastroenteritis, increased lipase Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Acute pancreatitis, acute gallbladder diseaseType 2 Diabetes Mellitus:Very common (10% or more): Nausea (up to 28.4%), diarrhea (up to 17.1%), vomiting (up to 10.9%)Common (1% to 10%): Constipation, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, gastritis, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, toothacheRare (less than 0.1%): Intestinal obstructionPostmarketing reports: Acute hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis, including fatalities
Chronic Weight Management: The percentage of patients reporting nausea declined as treatment continued.  Most gastrointestinal events were mild or moderate and did not lead to discontinuation.  Acute pancreatitis occurred in 0.3% (9/3291) of liraglutide-treated patients and 0.1% (1/1843) of placebo patients in clinical trials.  Three additional cases occurred in liraglutide-treated patients, 2 in patients who prematurely withdrew from the trial and 1 during an off-treatment follow-up period.  Acute gallbladder disease was reported more frequently in liraglutide-treated patients (1.5% versus 0.5%) during clinical trials.  Substantial or rapid weight loss can increase the risk of cholelithiasis, but even after accounting for the degree of weight loss, the incidence of acute gallbladder disease was greater in liraglutide-treated patients.  Type 2 Diabetes MellitusThere have been postmarketing reports of acute hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis, including fatalities.  During clinical trials, 13 cases of pancreatitis were received among liraglutide treated patients, 9 acute and 4 chronic compared with 1 case in the comparator (glimepiride) group.  Some patients had other risk factors for pancreatitis, such as a history of cholelithiasis or alcohol abuse.
Chronic Weight Management:Very common (10% or more): Hypoglycemia in type 2 diabetes (23%)Common (1% to 10%): Decreased appetiteType 2 Diabetes Mellitus:Very common (10% or more): Hypoglycemia (when used in combination with a sulfonylurea)Common (1% to 10%): Hypoglycemia, anorexia, decreased appetiteUncommon (0.1% to 1%): DehydrationPostmarketing reports: Dehydration resulting from nausea, vomiting and diarrhea
Chronic Weight Management:In patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus receiving this drug for chronic weight management, severe hypoglycemia occurred in 0.7% (3/422) of liraglutide-treated patients, each of these patients was also receiving a sulfonylurea.  Among all patients receiving this drug in combination with a sulfonylurea, symptomatic hypoglycemia occurred in 43.6% (48/110) of patients.  The dose of sulfonylurea had been reduced by 50% at the start of the trial.  Among patients not taking a sulfonylurea, symptomatic hypoglycemia occurred in 15.7% (49/312) of patients.  Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus:Major episodes of hypoglycemia have not been reported in clinical trials in which liraglutide was used as monotherapy, however, when used in combination with a sulfonylurea, hypoglycemia was very commonly reported.
Very common (10% or more): Headache (up to 13.6%)Common (1% to 10%): DizzinessFrequency not reported: dysgeusia
Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus: Common (1% to 10%): Nasopharyngitis, bronchitis, upper respiratory infection
The most commonly reported adverse events reported during chronic weight management clinical trials included nausea, hypoglycemia, diarrhea, constipation, vomiting, headache, decreased appetite, dyspepsia, fatigue, dizziness, abdominal pain, and increased lipase.  The most commonly reported adverse events reported during type 2 diabetes mellitus clinical trials included headache, nausea, diarrhea, and anti-liraglutide (the active ingredient contained in Saxenda) antibody formation.
Chronic Weight Management:Very common (10% or more): Increases in mean resting heart rateCommon (1% to 10%): HypotensionUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Cardiac conduction disorder, tachycardiaType 2 Diabetes Mellitus:Common (1% to 10%): Increased heart rate
Chronic Weight Management:Cardiac conduction disorders were reported as first degree atrioventricular block, right bundle branch block, or left bundle branch block.Increases in mean resting heart rate of 2 to 3 beats per minute (bpm) were observed in clinical trials.  Increases of 10 and 20 bpm at 2 consecutive visits were 34% and 5% in liraglutide-treated patients versus 19% and 2% in the placebo group, respectively.  Resting heart rate exceeding 100 bpm was recorded for 6% of liraglutide-treated patients versus 4% of placebo patients.  Tachycardia was reported in 0.6% of liraglutide-treated patients compared with 0.1% of placebo patients.  Monitoring heart rate over 24-hours found that liraglutide treatment was associated with a 4 to 9 bpm higher heart rate than placebo.  The clinical significance of this is unknown.
Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infection
Common (1% to 10%): Injection site erythema, injection site reaction
The most common injection site reactions were erythema, pruritus, and rash at the injection site.
Frequency not reported: Development of anti-liraglutide (the active ingredient contained in Saxenda) antibodies
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): UrticariaPostmarketing reports: Serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g.  anaphylactic reactions and angioedema)
While this drug has not been found to be directly nephrotoxic in animal studies or clinical trials, postmarketing reports of acute renal failure and worsening of chronic renal failure sometimes requiring dialysis have been received.  A majority of reports occurred in patients who had experienced nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or dehydration.
Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus: Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Renal impairment, acute renal failurePostmarketing reports: Acute renal failure and worsening of chronic renal failure, sometimes requiring dialysis, increased serum creatinine
Common (1% to 10%): RashUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Urticaria, pruritus
Common (1% to 10%): Increased blood calcitonin levelsUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Goiter
Common (1% to 10%): FatigueUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Asthenia, malaise
Chronic Weight Management:Fatigue and asthenia were most commonly reported within the first 12 weeks and were often co-reported with gastrointestinal events.
Chronic Weight Management:In clinical trials, 0.2% (6/3384) patients receiving liraglutide (the active ingredient contained in Saxenda) reported suicidal ideation and 1 attempted suicide.  There were no reports in patients receiving placebo.
Chronic Weight Management:Common (1% to 10%): Insomnia, anxietyUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Suicidal ideationVery rare (less than 0.01%): Suicide attempt
Chronic Weight Management:Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): ALT increased Frequency not reported: AST increasedType 2 Diabetes Mellitus:Postmarketing reports: Elevations of liver enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, cholestasis, hepatitis
Chronic Weight Management:Breast Cancer: During clinical trials, 0.6% (4/2379) of liraglutide-treated patients were diagnosed with breast cancer compared with 0.2% (3/1300) of placebo patients.  There were too few cases to determine if these were related to drug treatment and insufficient data to determine whether this drug had an effect on preexisting breast neoplasia.  Papillary Thyroid Cancer: During clinical trials, 0.2% (7/3291) of the liraglutide-treated patients were diagnosed with papillary thyroid carcinoma compared with no cases in 1843 placebo patients.Colorectal Neoplasms: During clinical trials, 0.5% (17/3291) of the liraglutide-treated patients had benign colorectal neoplasms compared with 0.2% (4/1843) of placebo patients.  Malignant colorectal carcinoma was diagnosed in 2 liraglutide-treated patients. Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus: In clinical trials, 6 cases of thyroid C-cell hyperplasia were reported among liraglutide-treated patients and 2 cases in the comparator-treated group (1.3 vs 1 case per 1000 patient-years).  Medullary thyroid carcinoma was diagnosed in 1 patient in the comparator group who had pretreatment serum calcitonin concentrations greater than 1000 ng/L suggesting preexisting disease.  The study required protocol-specified serum calcitonin measurements.  All cases of thyroid C-cell hyperplasia were diagnosed after thyroidectomy which was done due to abnormal calcitonin levels.  Of the 6 patients with thyroid C-cell hyperplasia, 5 had elevated calcitonin concentrations at baseline and throughout the trial.  One patient in both the liraglutide-treated group and the comparator group developed elevated calcitonin concentrations while on treatment.
Chronic Weight Management:Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Benign colorectal neoplasms, papillary thyroid cancer, breast cancer, malignant colorectal carcinomaType 2 Diabetes Mellitus: Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Thyroid neoplasms Frequency not reported: Thyroid C-cell hyperplasiaPostmarketing reports: Medullary Thyroid Cancer
It is possible that some side effects of Saxenda may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
cough or hoarseness
diarrhea
difficult, burning, or painful urination
fever or chills
frequent urge to urinate
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
joint pain
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
muscle aches and pains
nausea
runny nose
shivering
sore throat
sweating
trouble sleeping
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Blurred vision
dizziness
nervousness
pounding in the ears
slow or fast heartbeat
Anxiety
cold sweats
coma
confusion
cool, pale skin
depression
hives or welts, itching, or skin rash
increased hunger
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
nightmares
redness of the skin
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
Agitation
clay-colored stools
confusion
dark urine
decreased urine output
depression
difficulty with swallowing
hostility
irritability
lethargy
muscle twitching
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rapid weight gain
stupor
swelling of the face, ankles, or hands
tightness in the chest
unpleasant breath odor
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin
Abdominal or stomach cramps, discomfort, or pain
acid or sour stomach
back pain
belching
body aches or pain
constipation
decreased appetite
heartburn
indigestion
loss of voice
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
sneezing
stuffy nose
swollen mouth and tongue
unpleasant taste
urge to have bowel movement
weight loss
Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site