Generic Name: articaine / epinephrine
Applies to articaine / epinephrine: parenteral injection
Side effects include:
Pain,     headache,     facial edema,    gingivitis,    paresthesia,    infection.   
Applies to articaine / epinephrine: injectable solution
Other side effects including pain (up to 13%), headache (up to 5%), positive blood aspiration into syringe (3.2%), swelling (2.7%), face edema (1%), infection (1%), neck pain, abdominal pain, ear pain, taste perversion, and accidental injury have been reported.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea and emesis (1.6%), gingivitis (1%), constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, glossitis, gum hemorrhage, mouth ulceration, nausea, stomatitis, tongue edema, tooth disorder, and vomiting have been reported.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects including trismus (1.6%), arthralgia, myalgia, back pain, and osteomyelitis have been reported.[Ref]
General side effects including sleepiness (1.1%), malaise, and asthenia have been reported.
Nervous system side effects including paresthesia (1%), numbness and tingling (1%), dizziness, dry mouth, facial paralysis, hyperesthesia, increased salivation, nervousness, neuropathy, paresthesia, somnolence, and exacerbation of Kearns-Sayre syndrome have been reported.Persistent paresthesias of the lips, tongue, and oral tissues have been reported with use of articaine, with slow, incomplete, or no recovery.  These events have been reported chiefly following nerve blocks in the mandible and have involved the trigeminal nerve and its branches.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects including palpitation (1.0%), hemorrhage, migraine, syncope, tachycardia, and elevated blood pressure have been reported.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects including pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinus pain, and sinus congestion have been reported.
Hematologic side effects including ecchymosis and lymphadenopathy have been reported.
Metabolic side effects including edema and thirst have been reported.
Local side effects including injection site pain and a burningsensation above the injection site have been reported.
Dermatologic side effects including pruritus and skin disorder have been reported.
Genitourinary side effects including dysmenorrhea have been reported.
1. "Product Information. Septocaine (articaine-epinephrine)." Septodont Incorporated, New Castle, DE. 
It is possible that some side effects of Septocaine may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
