Generic Name: cycloserine
Applies to cycloserine: oral capsule
As well as its needed effects, cycloserine (the active ingredient contained in Seromycin) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking cycloserine, check with your doctor immediately:
Some cycloserine side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to cycloserine: oral capsule
Cycloserine (the active ingredient contained in Seromycin) is most frequently associated with neurotoxicity and hypersensitivity.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects may be dose-related (> 500 mg/day) and have included convulsions, drowsiness, somnolence, headache, tremor, dysarthria, vertigo, confusion, disorientation, loss of memory, psychoses, suicidal tendencies, character changes, hyperirritability, aggression, paresis, hyperreflexia, paresthesia, major and localized seizures, and coma.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included vitamin B12 deficiency, folic acid deficiency, megaloblastic anemia, and sideroblastic anemia.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included elevated serum transaminases, particularly in patients with preexisting liver disease.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity reactions have included skin rash.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included sudden development of congestive heart failure in patients receiving high doses (1 to 1.5 g/day).[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Seromycin (cycloserine)." Dura Pharmaceuticals, San Diego, CA. 
It is possible that some side effects of Seromycin may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Anxiety
confusion
 dizziness
drowsiness
 increased irritability
increased restlessness
mental depression
muscle twitching or trembling
nervousness
 nightmares
other mood or mental changes
speech problems
thoughts of suicide 


Convulsions (seizures)
numbness, tingling, burning pain, or weakness in the hands or feet
 skin rash


Headache

