As well as its needed effects, silver sulfadiazine topical (the active ingredient contained in Silvadene) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking silver sulfadiazine topical, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some silver sulfadiazine topical side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The serum sulfa levels have approached adult therapeutic levels (8 mg% to 12 mg%) when the drug was used on extensive areas of the body.  Although rare, side effects associated with sulfonamides may occur, such as blood dyscrasias (including agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, and hemolytic anemia), dermatologic and allergic reactions (including life-threatening cutaneous reactions [Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and exfoliative dermatitis]), gastrointestinal reactions, hepatitis, hepatocellular necrosis, CNS reactions, and toxic nephrosis.
Rare (less than 0.1%): Blood dyscrasias (including agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia)Frequency not reported: Transient leukopenia (several cases)
Leukopenia associated with silver sulfadiazine topical was primarily characterized by decreased neutrophil count.  Maximal white blood cell depression occurred within 2 to 4 days of starting therapy.  Rebound to normal leukocyte levels followed onset within 2 to 3 days.  Recovery was not affected by continuation of silver sulfadiazine topical.Hemolytic anemia has been reported in patients with glucose-6-phosphate deficiency.
Rare (less than 0.1%): Skin necrosis, erythema multiforme, skin discoloration, rashes, dermatologic reactions (including life-threatening cutaneous reactions [Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, exfoliative dermatitis])
Rare (less than 0.1%): Interstitial nephritis, toxic nephrosis
Rare (less than 0.1%): Sulfa crystals in urine
Sulfa crystals have been reported following the use of silver sulfadiazine topical on extensive areas of the body.
Rare (less than 0.1%): Allergic reactionsFrequency not reported: Possibility of cross-hypersensitivity
Rare (less than 0.1%): Hepatitis, hepatocellular necrosis
Frequency not reported: Changes in serum osmolality that may affect laboratory test interpretation, increased possibility of kernicterus, delayed separation
Changes in serum osmolality (which can interfere with some laboratory test results) have been reported.  This was attributed to the amount of propylene glycol vehicle absorbed following use on extensive areas of the body.Reduction in bacterial growth after use of topical antibacterial agents has been reported to permit spontaneous healing of deep partial-thickness burns by preventing conversion of the partial thickness to full thickness by sepsis.  However, reduction in bacterial colonization has caused delayed separation, in some cases necessitating escharotomy in order to prevent contracture.
Rare (less than 0.1%): Burning sensation, CNS reactions
Rare (less than 0.1%): Gastrointestinal reactions
It is possible that some side effects of Silvadene may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Back, leg, or stomach pains
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
blue-green to black skin discoloration
dark urine
fever with or without chills
general body swelling
increased sensitivity of the skin to sunlight, especially in patients with burns on large areas
intense itching of burn wounds
light-colored stools
lower back or side pain
nausea or vomiting
pinpoint red spots on the skin
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, swollen skin
skin rash
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
swollen or painful glands
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
yellow eyes and skin
Brownish-gray skin discoloration
burning feeling on treated areas