Common side effects of Solodyn include: headache. Other side effects include: dizziness.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, minocycline (the active ingredient contained in Solodyn) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Some minocycline side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Headache, dizziness, vertigo.  and ataxia have been reported.  These side effects were reversible within 3 to 48 hours of stopping therapy and occurred less often with low doses.Pseudotumor cerebri, bulging fontanels (infants), and decreased hearing have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Very common (10% or more): Headache (up to 23%)Common (1% to 10%): Dizziness (lightheadedness), somnolence, tinnitus, vertigoRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Hypoesthesia, paresthesia, intracranial hypertension, impaired/decreased hearingVery rare (less than 0.01%): Bulging fontanels (in infants)Frequency not reported: Convulsions, sedation, ataxia, benign intracranial hypertension (pseudotumor cerebri), vestibular reactions
Hyperpigmentation of various body sites (including the skin, nails, teeth, oral mucosa, bones, thyroid, eyes [including sclera, conjunctiva], breast milk, lacrimal secretions, perspiration) has been reported.  This blue/black/grey or muddy-brown discoloration was localized or diffuse.  The most common site was the skin.  Pigmentation often reversed when the drug was discontinued; however, resolution took several months or persisted in some cases.  The generalized muddy-brown skin pigmentation sometimes persisted, especially in areas exposed to sun.Biopsies of pigmented tissue have shown granules within the cells which stained positive for iron.  This pigmentation faded over time after drug discontinuation.DRESS syndrome (including fatal cases) has been reported.  DRESS syndrome with persistent myocarditis has been reported in at least 3 cases.Fixed drug eruptions, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and photosensitivity have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Common (1% to 10%): Pruritus, urticariaRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Alopecia, erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, fixed drug eruptions, hyperpigmentation (brownish or bluish-black pigmentation) of skin, photosensitivity, rash, vasculitisVery rare (less than 0.01%): Angioedema, exfoliative dermatitis, hyperpigmentation of nails/nail beds, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysisFrequency not reported: Hyperpigmentation of various body sites (including bones, mucous membranes, teeth, oral mucosa, tongue, thyroid, eyes [including sclera, conjunctiva], breast milk, lacrimal secretions, structures of inner organs), maculopapular rash, erythematous rash, discolored perspiration, Sweet's syndrome (acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis)Postmarketing reports: Anaphylactoid purpura, pigmentation of skin and mucous membranes, angioneurotic edema, drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS)
Pancreatitis has rarely been associated with use of this drug.  In 2 case reports, cystic fibrosis patients experienced pancreatitis during treatment with this drug for acute bacterial exacerbations of respiratory disease.  The authors suggested that cystic fibrosis patients, as a result of the disease process, may be more susceptible to drug-induced pancreatitis.  Additionally, in at least 1 case, multiple concomitant medications were taken; therefore, a temporal relationship between this drug and pancreatitis could not be proven conclusively.Esophagitis and esophageal ulcerations have been reported in patients taking the capsule or tablet formulations of tetracycline-class antibiotics.  Most of these patients took the drug immediately before going to bed.Enterocolitis, pancreatitis, glossitis, dysphagia, and tooth discoloration have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Common (1% to 10%): Dry mouthRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Diarrhea, nausea, stomatitis, discoloration of teeth, vomitingVery rare (less than 0.01%): Oral and anogenital candidiasis, dyspepsia, dysphagia, enamel hypoplasia, enterocolitis, esophagitis, esophageal ulcerations, glossitis, pancreatitis, pseudomembranous colitisFrequency not reported: Antibiotic-associated colitis, oral cavity discoloration (including buccal mucosa, tongue, lip, gum), abdominal cramping, inflammatory lesions (with monilial overgrowth) in the oral and anogenital regions
Common (1% to 10%): Arthralgia, myalgiaRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Lupus-like syndrome (consisting of positive antinuclear antibody [ANA], arthralgia, arthritis, joint stiffness/swelling, and at least 1 of the following: fever, myalgia, hepatitis, rash, vasculitis)Very rare (less than 0.01%): Arthritis, bone discoloration, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), exacerbation of SLE, joint stiffness, joint swelling, joint discoloration, myopathy, hypersensitivity-associated rhabdomyolysisPostmarketing reports: Polyarthralgia, exacerbation of systemic lupus, transient lupus-like syndrome
Lupus-like reactions induced by this drug have commonly presented with arthralgia or arthritis, myalgia or malaise, and positive ANA titer.  Patients with highly positive anti-double stranded DNA (anti-dsDNA) antibodies have rarely been reported.  All patients recovered after the drug was discontinued; however, several required short courses of corticosteroids.Severe acute myopathy associated with this drug (100 mg orally per day) occurred in a 17-year-old male after strenuous exercise.  His laboratory values were as follows: ESR 33 mm/hr, CRP 0.84 mg/dL, creatine kinase 87,297 units/L, AST 1307 units/L, ALT 311 units/L, LDH 4935 units/L, aldolase 12.6 units/L, alkaline phosphatase 145 units/L, GGT 66 units/L.  Muscle enzyme levels normalized and his symptoms resolved 1 month after this drug was discontinued.IV minocycline plus quinupristin-dalfopristin were associated with myalgia and arthralgia in 36% of neutropenic cancer patients (n=56).
Common (1% to 10%): Fatigue, malaiseUncommon (0.1% to 1%): FeverVery rare (less than 0.01%): Discoloration of secretionsInjection:-Frequency not reported: Magnesium intoxication (including flushing, sweating, hypotension, depressed reflexes, flaccid paralysis, hypothermia, circulatory collapse, cardiac and CNS depression, respiratory paralysis)
Common (1% to 10%): Mood alteration
Death has been reported in some cases involving hypersensitivity syndrome, serum sickness-like syndrome, and lupus-like syndrome.Pulmonary infiltrates, night sweats, fever, and eosinophilia have developed in several patients receiving this drug.  These effects were thought to be due to drug hypersensitivity.Case reports have described a severe CNS -pulmonary hypersensitivity syndrome requiring high-dose corticosteroid therapy.  Signs and symptoms have included dry cough, fever, ataxia, muscle weakness, numbness, visual abnormalities, abnormal brain MRI, seizures, pulmonary infiltrates, elevated serum IgE, elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and eosinophilia.Eosinophilic pneumonia with relapsing acute respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation and corticosteroids has been reported in a 54-year-old woman.  Initial symptoms included dry cough, low-grade fever, fatigue, and dyspnea.  Eosinophilia, elevated leukocytes, and C-reactive protein (CRP) were noted.  At 14 days after being discharged and resuming this drug, the patient developed rapidly progressive respiratory failure again requiring mechanical ventilation.Late-onset drug fever (associated with fever, sore throat, abdominal pain, weakness, loose bloody stools, fatigue, 40-pound weight loss, ESR 99 mm/hr, CRP 5 mg/dL, and mild increases in liver enzymes) has been reported in a 15-year-old boy after using this drug for 24 months for acne.  After 1 year of therapy, at least 1 other case of late-onset drug fever occurred.  Other reported cases of drug fever generally occurred after 2 to 4 weeks of drug exposure.
Rare (0.01% to 0.1%): Anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reaction (including shock, fatalities)Frequency not reported: Hypersensitivity, hypersensitivity syndrome (consisting of cutaneous reaction [e.g., rash, exfoliative dermatitis], eosinophilia, and at least 1 of the following: hepatitis, pneumonitis, nephritis, myocarditis, pericarditis; with or without fever, lymphadenopathy), serum sickness-like syndrome (consisting of fever, urticaria/rash, arthralgia, arthritis, joint stiffness/swelling, lymphadenopathy; with or without eosinophilia), autoimmune vasculitis, drug fever, eosinophilic pneumonitis, drug hypersensitivity (e.g., pulmonary infiltrates, night sweats, fever, eosinophilia), serum sickness, serum sickness-like reactions, severe central nervous system (CNS)-pulmonary hypersensitivity syndromePostmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity reactions, anaphylaxis
Frequency not reported: Positive antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA) titers, polyarteritis nodosa, ANCA-positive crescentic glomerulonephritis, ANCA-positive vasculitis, autoimmune hepatitis, necrotizing vasculitis and systemic reactions
Rare cases of necrotizing vasculitis and systemic reactions have been reported, characterized by lymphadenopathy, eosinophilia, increased liver function enzyme levels, and dermatologic involvement.  In each case, this drug was discontinued and in some cases, corticosteroid therapy was necessary to assist in the resolution of symptoms.
Some hepatic reactions had an autoimmune basis and occurred after several months of therapy.In 1 case, a patient developed rapidly progressing liver failure after using this drug for 4 weeks for acne.  The patient had stopped this drug 2 weeks prior to onset of malaise.  Liver transplantation was considered, but the patient slowly recovered without significant intervention.Other reports of immunologically-mediated progressive liver dysfunction have rarely occurred.  In 1 case, a patient received a liver transplant after fulminant hepatic failure which was thought to be related to a 3-year history of daily therapy to treat acne.  The dose of this drug ranged from 50 to 200 mg/day.  A second patient had been using this drug to treat acne for 1 year just prior to seeking medical attention for an "influenza-like" syndrome.  Upon hospitalization, it was determined that the patient was experiencing an autoimmune-mediated hepatitis, most probably related to this drug.  Resolution of symptoms occurred in both of these cases after therapy was discontinued and each patient had received appropriate supportive medical care.Hepatitis and liver failure have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Rare (0.01% to 0.1%): Increased liver enzymes, hepatitis, autoimmune hepatitis/hepatotoxicityVery rare (less than 0.01%): Hepatic cholestasis, hepatic failure (including fatalities), hyperbilirubinemia, jaundiceFrequency not reported: Autoimmune hepatitis with lupus-like symptoms, increased liver function test values, acute hepatic failure, liver injury, acute hypersensitivity hepatitis associated with eosinophilia and dermatitis
Rare (0.01% to 0.1%): Increased BUN/serum urea, interstitial nephritis, acute renal failurePostmarketing reports: Reversible acute renal failureTetracyclines:-Frequency not reported: Aggravation of preexisting renal failure, azotemia/uremia, nephrotoxicity (associated with acute fatty liver), renal tubular damage, Fanconi-like syndrome
Nephrotoxicity associated with acute fatty liver has been reported with high tetracycline doses.  High serum levels of tetracyclines have been associated with azotemia, hyperphosphatemia, and acidosis in patients with renal dysfunction.Degraded tetracycline may cause renal tubular damage and a Fanconi-like syndrome.
Rare (0.01% to 0.1%): Eosinophilia, leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopeniaVery rare (less than 0.01%): Hemolytic anemia, pancytopeniaFrequency not reported: Agranulocytosis, antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-positive vasculitis
Hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and eosinophilia have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Rare (0.01% to 0.1%): Cough, dyspnea, pulmonary infiltrationVery rare (less than 0.01%): Bronchospasm, exacerbation of asthma, pulmonary eosinophiliaFrequency not reported: Pneumonitis, hypersensitivity pneumonitis, pulmonary lupus, eosinophilic pneumonia, pleural effusions, relapsing acute respiratory failurePostmarketing reports: Pulmonary infiltrates with eosinophilia
Rare (0.01% to 0.1%): Myocarditis, pericarditis
High serum levels of tetracyclines have been associated with azotemia, hyperphosphatemia, and acidosis in patients with renal dysfunction.
Rare (0.01% to 0.1%): AnorexiaTetracyclines:-Frequency not reported: Hyperphosphatemia, acidosis
Very rare (less than 0.01%): Abnormal thyroid function, brown-black microscopic thyroid discolorationFrequency not reported: Discolored breast secretions
A condition characterized by dark pigmentation (brown-black microscopic discoloration) of the thyroid gland has been reported; however, there was no clinical or laboratory evidence of thyroid dysfunction (unknown clinical implications).Brown-black microscopic thyroid discoloration and abnormal thyroid function have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Very rare (less than 0.01%): Balanitis (due to lesions on the glans penis), vulvovaginitisPostmarketing reports: Deleterious effects on spermatogenesis
Balanitis has also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Frequency not reported: Injection site erythema, injection site pain
Frequency not reported: Papillary thyroid cancerPostmarketing reports: Thyroid cancer
Frequency not reported: Discoloration of conjunctiva, discoloration of lacrimal secretions, grey scleral pigmentation, macular pigmentation
Cases of grey scleral pigmentation and macular pigmentation have been reported in elderly patients after chronic use of this drug (5 to 12 years).
It is possible that some side effects of Solodyn may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
intravenous powder for solution
Black, tarry stools
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
blood in the urine or stools
blurred or double vision
bulging soft spot on the head of an infant
chest pain, possibly moving to the left arm, neck, or shoulder
confusion
diarrhea
dizziness or lightheadedness
eye pain
fast heartbeat
general feeling of discomfort or illness
general tiredness and weakness
hives, itching, or skin rash
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
nausea or vomiting
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
severe headache
severe stomach pain
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
troubled breathing
unusual bleeding or bruising
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
yellow eyes and skin
Continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
difficulty with moving
hearing loss
hives or welts
muscle stiffness
redness of the skin
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
Bloating
discoloration of the tooth
increased sensitivity of the skin to sunlight
indigestion
severe sunburn