Commonly reported side effects of sorafenib include: alopecia, arthralgia, desquamation, diarrhea, exfoliation of skin, fatigue, headache, hemorrhage, hypertension, hypophosphatemia, increased serum lipase, lymphocytopenia, neutropenia, palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia, peripheral sensory neuropathy, pruritus, skin rash, weight loss, increased amylase, and xeroderma.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to sorafenib: oral tablet
As well as its needed effects, sorafenib may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking sorafenib, check with your doctor immediately:
Some sorafenib side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to sorafenib: oral tablet
Gastrointestinal (GI) side effects including diarrhea (43%), increased lipase (41%), increased amylase (30%), nausea (23%), anorexia (16%), vomiting (16%), and constipation (15%) have been reported.  Common side effects have included mucositis, stomatitis, (including dry mouth and glossodynia), dyspepsia, and dysphagia.  Uncommon side effects have included pancreatitis, GI reflux, and gastritis.  In addition, GI perforation has been reported in less than 1% of patients receiving sorafenib and not always associated with apparent intra- abdominal tumor.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects including rash/desquamation (40%), Hand-foot skin reaction (30%), alopecia (27%), pruritus (19%), and dry skin (11%) have been reported.  Very common side effects have included erythema.  Common side effects have included exfoliative dermatitis, acne, and flushing.  Scalp dysesthesia and subungual splinter hemorrhages (characterized by straight black or red lines under the nails) have been reported.  Uncommon side effects have included folliculitis, eczema, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme.  Three cases of keratoacanthomas and two cases of sorafenib-induced eruptive melanocytic lesions have been reported.  Postmarketing reports of Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been received.[Ref]
Endocrine side effects have included hyperthyroidism.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects including hypertension (17%), angioedema, and congestive heart failure have been reported.  Uncommon side effects have included hypertensive crisis, myocardial ischemia, and/or infarction.  Cardiac failure, thromboembolism, and arrhythmia have been reported infrequently.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects including Hypoalbuminemia (49%), hemorrhage (15%) (i.e., gastrointestinal, respiratory tract and rarely cerebral hemorrhage) have been reported.  Common side effects have included anemia and thrombocytopenia.  Uncommon side effects have included abnormal international normalized ratio (INR) results.  Cases of erythrocytosis have also been reported.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects including dyspnea (14%) and cough (13%) have been reported.  Common side effects have included hoarseness.  Uncommon side effects have included rhinorrhea and interstitial lung disease-like events.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects including sensory neuropathy (13%) and headache (10%) have been reported.  Common side effects have included tinnitus.  Cerebral hemorrhage, transient ischemic attack, and reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy have also been reported infrequently.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects including joint pain (10%) have been reported.  Common side effects have included arthralgia and myalgia.  Postmarketing reports of rhabdomyolysis and osteonecrosis of the jaw have been received.[Ref]
Immunologic side effects have very commonly included leukopenia and lymphopenia.  Common side effects have included neutropenia.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects including skin reactions and urticaria have been reported.  Postmarketing reports of angioedema and anaphylactic reaction have been received.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects including hypocalcemia, weight loss (10%), transient increases in transaminases, and hypophosphatemia have been commonly reported.  Uncommon side effects have included dehydration, hyponatremia, hypokalemia, transient increases in alkaline phosphatase, increased bilirubin (including jaundice), and hypothyroidism.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects have commonly included depression.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have commonly included erectile dysfunction.  Uncommon side effects have included gynecomastia and proteinuria.[Ref]
Renal side effects including acute renal failure and nephrotic syndrome have been reported infrequently.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects including liver dysfunction have been reported in at least 10% of patients.  Drug-induced hepatitis, including reports of hepatic failure and death, has been reported during postmarketing surveillance.[Ref]
Other side effects including fatigue (37%) and abdominal pain (11%) have been reported.  Very common side effects have included asthenia and pain (including mouth, bone, and tumor pain).  Common side effects have included decreased appetite, influenza-like illness, and pyrexia.  Uncommon side effects have included infection.[Ref]
1. Amar S,  Wu KJ,  Tan WW "Sorafenib-induced pancreatitis." Mayo Clin Proc 82 (2007): 516-22
2. "Product Information. Nexavar (sorafenib)." Bayer Pharmaceutical Inc, West Haven, CT. 
3. Autier J,  Escudier B,  Wechsler J,  Spatz A,  Robert C "Prospective study of the cutaneous adverse effects of sorafenib, a novel multikinase inhibitor." Arch Dermatol 144 (2008): 886-92
4. Kong HH,  Cowen EW,  Azad NS,  Dahut W,  Gutierrez M,  Turner ML "Keratoacanthomas associated with sorafenib therapy." J Am Acad Dermatol 56 (2007): 171-2
5. Kong HH,  Sibaud V,  Chanco Turner ML,  Fojo T,  Hornyak TJ,  Chevreau C "Sorafenib-induced eruptive melanocytic lesions." Arch Dermatol 144 (2008): 820-2
6. Macgregor JL,  Silvers DN,  Grossman ME,  Sherman WH "Sorafenib-induced erythema multiforme." J Am Acad Dermatol 56 (2007): 527-8
7. Alexandrescu DT,  McClure R,  Farzanmehr H,  Dasanu CA "Secondary erythrocytosis produced by the tyrosine kinase inhibitors sunitinib and sorafenib." J Clin Oncol 26 (2008): 4047-8
It is possible that some side effects of sorafenib may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Abdominal or stomach pain
bleeding gums
bloating of the abdomen or stomach
blood in the urine or stools
blurred vision
clay-colored stools
coughing up blood
dark urine
difficulty with breathing or swallowing
dizziness
headache
increased menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding
light-colored stools
nausea and vomiting
nervousness
nosebleeds
paralysis
pounding in the ears
prolonged bleeding from cuts
red or black, tarry stools
red or dark brown urine
slow or fast heartbeat
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin


Bone pain
chest pain or discomfort
chills
clammy skin
confusion
constipation
convulsions (seizures)
cough
decreased urine production
depressed mood
difficulty with moving
dry skin and hair
enlarged pupils
feeling cold
fever
hair loss
hearing loss
hives
hoarseness or husky voice
increased sensitivity of the eyes to light
increased sweating, possibly with fever or cold
increased thirst
indigestion
itching
joint pain
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
muscle cramps and stiffness
muscle pain
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
painful or difficult urination
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
reddening of the skin, especially around the ears
ringing, buzzing, or other unexplained noise in the ears that continues
severe chest pain
severe headache
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stiff or sore neck
stomach discomfort or upset
sweating
swelling of the ankles or hands
swelling of the eyes, face, or inside of the nose
swollen glands
swollen joints
trouble breathing with exertion
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
weight gain


Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
diarrhea
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes


Blistering, peeling, redness, and/or swelling of the palms of the hands or bottom of the feet
burning, tingling, numbness or pain in the hands, arms, feet, or legs
numbness, pain, tingling, or unusual sensations in palms of the hands or bottom of the feet
sensation of pins and needles
stabbing pain
thinning of the hair
tightness in the chest
weight loss


Acid or sour stomach
acne
belching
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
burning feeling in the chest or stomach
burning, itching, and pain in hairy areas
cracked lips
cracks in the skin
decreased appetite
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
discouragement
dry mouth
fainting
feeling of warmth
feeling sad or empty
flushing or red skin
gas
general feeling of discomfort or illness
heartburn
inability to have or keep an erection
increase in heart rate
irritability
lack or loss of strength
lightheadedness
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
loss of ability to use or understand speech or language
loss of heat from the body
loss of interest or pleasure
mouth pain
pus at the root of the hair
rapid breathing
red face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
red, swollen skin
runny nose
scaly skin
shivering
skin rash that is encrusted, scaly, and oozing
sunken eyes
swelling of the breasts or breast soreness in both men and women
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
tenderness in the stomach area
thirst
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
unusually warm skin
wrinkled skin

