As well as its needed effects, nateglinide (the active ingredient contained in Starlix) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Some nateglinide side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most frequently reported adverse events included upper respiratory tract infections and symptoms of hypoglycemia.
Common (1% to 10%): HypoglycemiaFrequency not reported: Increases in mean uric acid level
Hypoglycemia has been reported and has generally been mild and corrected by intake of carbohydrates.  In comparative clinical trials, hypoglycemia was reported in 10.4%, 14.5%, 6.9%, 19.8%, and 4.1% in patients receiving nateglinide alone, nateglinide plus metformin, metformin alone, glyburide alone, and placebo, respectively.  Mean uric acid levels were increased in patient receiving this drug as monotherapy.  The difference from placebo in treated patients was 0.29 mg/dL, 0.45 mg/dL, 0.28 mg/dL, and 0.19 mg/dL in patients receiving nateglinide alone, nateglinide plus metformin, metformin alone, glyburide alone, respectively.  The clinical significance of these findings is unknown.
Common (1% to 10%): Upper respiratory tract infection, bronchitis, coughing
Postmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity reactions such as rash, itching, and urticaria
Common (1% to 10%): Diarrhea, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, nauseaUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Vomiting
Gastrointestinal symptoms, especially diarrhea and nausea, were no more common in patients using this drug in combination with metformin than in patients receiving metformin alone.
Postmarketing reports: Elevated liver enzymes, jaundice, cholestatic hepatitis
Common (1% to 10%): Dizziness
Common (1% to 10%): Back pain, arthropathy
Peripheral edema was no more common in patients using this drug in combination with rosiglitazone than in patients receiving rosiglitazone alone.
Frequency not reported: Peripheral edema
Postmarketing reports: Erythema multiforme
Common (1% to 10%): Flu symptoms
Common (1% to 10%): Accidental trauma
It is possible that some side effects of Starlix may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Convulsions (seizures)
unconsciousness 
Low blood sugar, including anxious feeling, behavior change similar to being drunk, blurred vision, cold sweats, confusion, cool pale skin, difficulty in thinking, drowsiness, excessive hunger, fast heartbeat, headache, nausea, nervousness, nightmares, restless sleep, shakiness, slurred speech, or unusual tiredness or weakness
Hives or welts
itching
redness of skin
skin rash
Cough
runny or stuffy nose
sore throat
Abdominal or stomach pain
back pain 
chills
dizziness
pain in joints or muscles
sneezing 
swelling in joints