As well as its needed effects, desmopressin (the active ingredient contained in Stimate) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Some desmopressin side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
One review of the literature found that the incidence of thrombotic events associated with the use of DDAVP to reduce blood loss and transfusion requirements in surgical patients was not significantly higher than placebo.  In any case, the incidence of thrombosis is rare.  One review found only 10 reports of thrombosis over a 4-year period, covering 433,000 doses of DDAVP.
Cardiovascular side effects have infrequently included transient and slight elevations or reductions in blood pressure, a compensatory change in heart rate, and facial flushing with injections of desmopressin (DDAVP).  Vasodilation and water retention have occurred.  There have been rare reports of thrombotic events (acute cerebral thrombosis, acute myocardial infarction) in some patients after DDAVP injection.  At least one case of fatal left coronary thrombosis has been associated with the use of DDAVP.
Nervous system side effects have included seizures and/or coma as a result of severe water intoxication and hyponatremia.  Other nervous system side effects have included headache and dizziness in less than 3% of patients.  DDAVP nasal spray has been infrequently associated with somnolence, lethargy, paresthesias, fatigue, confusion, stupor, malaise, diaphoresis, itchy or light-sensitive eyes, insomnia, chills, warm feeling, and agitation.
The risk factors for DDAVP-induced hyponatremia include stress, surgery, anesthesia, narcotics (endogenous release of ADH), vomiting (loss of sodium), liver disease (hindered metabolism of DDAVP), overhydration with hyponatremic fluids, and advanced age.  In some cases, fluid restriction, avoidance of hyponatremic solutions, and close monitoring of serum electrolytes and urine output for at least 15 to 20 hours after the administration of DDAVP may be beneficial.
Hematologic side effects have included platelet aggregation and thrombocytopenia.  These have been seen almost uniquely in patients with von Willebrand's disease Type IIB (DDAVP is contraindicated in these patients).
Local side effects of injections of DDAVP have included intravenous site erythema, swelling, and burning.
Respiratory side effects of intranasal DDAVP have included rhinitis, epistaxis, and nostril pain in 2% to 10% of patients.  Apnea and cardiac arrest occurred in one patient.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included mild abdominal cramps and nausea in 2% of patients.  Dyspepsia and vomiting have rarely been associated with DDAVP nasal spray.
Hypersensitivity reactions have rarely included anaphylaxis.
Psychiatric side effects have included a single case of paranoid psychosis associated with the use of DDAVP nasal spray.
It is possible that some side effects of Stimate may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
injection solutionnasal solution, nasal spray
Confusion
convulsions
decreased urine output
dizziness
fast or irregular heartbeat
headache
increased thirst
muscle pain or cramps
nausea or vomiting
shortness of breath
swelling of the face, ankles, or hands
unusual tiredness or weakness
Weight gain
Delusions
dementia
diarrhea