Common side effects of Strensiq include: anaphylaxis, ectopic calcification, nausea, calcium nephrolithiasis, fever, headache, hypersensitivity reaction, lipodystrophy, vomiting, chills, erythema, flushing, and irritability.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Side effects include:
Injection site reactions,   ectopic calcifications,  lipodystrophy,  hypersensitivity reactions. 
The most common adverse reactions include injection site reactions, lipodystrophy, ectopic calcifications, and hypersensitivity reactions.
Very common (10% or more): Hypersensitivity reactions (12%)Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Anaphylaxis symptoms
In clinical trials 1 treated-patient (n=99; 1%) experienced signs and symptoms consistent with anaphylaxis.  This patient had been receiving this drug for 3.5 years before this reaction occurred.  The reaction (difficulty breathing, nausea, periorbital edema, and dizziness) occurred approximately 1 minute after injection and resolved without medical treatment.  This patient continued on therapy with premedication and eventually continued treatment without premedication.Hypersensitivity reactions including nausea/vomiting, fever, headache, flushing, irritability, rigor/chills, skin erythema, rash, pruritus, and oral hypoesthesia have been reported.
Very common (10% or more): Injection site reactions (63%), lipodystrophy (28%)
Localized lipodystrophy, including lipoatrophy and lipohypertrophy, has been reported after several months.  The frequency of injection site reactions and lipodystrophy were higher in patients with juvenile-onset hypophosphatasia (HPP) as compared to perinatal/infantile onset HPP patients.  Injection site reactions included erythema, discoloration/hyperpigmentation, pain/tenderness, pruritus/itching, swelling, induration, macule, bruising, nodule, injection site rash, inflammation, papules, hemorrhage, hematoma, urticaria, warmth, calcification, mass, scar, and cellulitis.  The majority of injection site reactions resolved within 1 week.  One patient experienced a severe injection site reaction of injection site discoloration and withdrew from the clinical trial.
In clinical trials, there were 14 cases (14%) of ectopic calcification of the eye (including the cornea and conjunctiva) and the kidneys (nephrocalcinosis).  No visual changes or changes in renal function were reported as a result of these ectopic calcifications.  The frequency of ectopic calcifications was higher in patients with juvenile-onset hypophosphatasia (HPP) as compared to perinatal/infantile onset HPP patients.
Frequency not reported: Nephrocalcinosis
In clinical trials, there were 14 cases (14%) of ectopic calcification of the eye (including the cornea and conjunctiva) and the kidneys (nephrocalcinosis).  No visual changes or changes in renal function were reported as a result of these ectopic calcifications.  The frequency of ectopic calcifications was higher in patients with juvenile-onset hypophosphatasia (HPP) as compared to perinatal/infantile onset HPP patients.
Frequency not reported: Ectopic calcifications of eye
It is possible that some side effects of Strensiq may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.