Applies to sulfinpyrazone: oral capsule, oral tablet
As well as its needed effects, sulfinpyrazone may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking sulfinpyrazone, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following side effects occur while taking sulfinpyrazone, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some sulfinpyrazone side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to sulfinpyrazone: oral capsule, oral tablet
Gastrointestinal symptoms have been the most frequently reported side effects.  Peptic ulcer disease may be exacerbated or reactivated.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects including anemia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, and aplastic anemia have occurred.  Two cases of leukemia following chronic sulfinpyrazone therapy have been reported.   Concomitant drug therapy was also reported and a causal relationship with sulfinpyrazone has not been established.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have been limited to rash.[Ref]
Renal failure has been reported.  Suggested mechanisms have included hypersensitivity induced interstitial nephritis, tubular-interstitial damage due to precipitation of urinary uric acid crystals, and inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis.  Urolithiasis and renal colic may occur following initiation of therapy.  Adequate fluid intake and urinary alkalinization are recommended.[Ref]
Mobilization of urates during initiation of therapy has resulted in musculoskeletal symptoms of acute gouty arthritis.[Ref]
1. Mattingly D, Bradley M, Selley PJ "Hazards of sulphinpyrazone." Br Med J 2 (1978): 1786-7
2. "Product Information. Anturane (sulfinpyrazone)." Novartis Pharmaceuticals, East Hanover, NJ. 
3. Braun J "Abnormalities of urinary sediment and renal failure following sulfinpyrazone therapy." Arch Intern Med 136 (1976): 1060-1
4. Walls M, Goral S, Stone W "Acute renal failure due to sulfinpyrazone." Am J Med Sci 315 (1998): 319-21
5. Keidar S, Kohan R, Levy J, Grenadier E, Palant A, Ben Ari J "Non oliguric acute renal failure after treatment with sulfinpyrazone." Clin Nephrol 17 (1982): 266-7
6. Howard T, Hoy RH, Warren S, Georgiev M, Selinger H "Acute renal dysfunction due to sulfinpyrazone therapy in post- myocardial infarction cardiomegaly: reversible hypersensitiv interstitial nephritis." Am Heart J 102 (1981): 294-5
7. Lijnen P, Boelaert J, van Eeghem P, Daneels R, Schurgers M, de Jaegere P, van der Stichele E, Vincke J, Fagard R, Verschueren LJ, Amery A "Decrease in renal function due to sulphinpyrazone treatment early after myocardial infarction." Clin Nephrol 19 (1983): 143-6
8. Keidar S, Kohan R, Levy J, et al "Non oliguric acute renal failure after treatment with sulfinpyrazone." Clin Nephrol 17 (1982): 266-7
9. Lenfant F, Lahet JJ, Volot F, Schafer I, Freysz M, Rochette L "Effects of bupivacaine on human erythrocytes submitted to stress and evidence for an interaction between bupivacaine and flumazenil." Br J Clin Pharmacol 48 (1999): 826-8
10. Boelaert J, Lijnen P, Robbens E, Rocher A, Daneels R, Schurgers M, Amery A "Impairment of renal function due to sulphinpyrazone after coronary artery bypass surgery: a prospective double-blind study." J Cardiovasc Pharmacol 8 (1986): 386-91
It is possible that some side effects of sulfinpyrazone may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Shortness of breath, troubled breathing, tightness in chest, and/or wheezing
sores, ulcers, or white spots on lips or in mouth
sore throat and fever with or without chills
swollen and/or painful glands
unusual bleeding or bruising


Clumsiness or unsteadiness
convulsions (seizures)
diarrhea
nausea or vomiting (severe or continuing)
stomach pain (severe or continuing)
difficulty in breathing


Lower back and/or side pain
painful urination (possibly with blood)


Skin rash


Bloody or black, tarry stools
fever 
increased blood pressure
 pinpoint red spots on skin
sudden decrease in amount of urine
swelling of face, fingers, feet, and/or lower legs
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds 
weight gain


Joint pain, redness, and/or swelling
 nausea or vomiting
stomach pain

