Applies to sulfadiazine: oral tablet
As well as its needed effects, sulfadiazine may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking sulfadiazine, check with your doctor immediately:
Some sulfadiazine side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to sulfadiazine: compounding powder, oral tablet
Hypersensitivity side effects have included urticarial rash (most common), allergic myocarditis, anaphylactoid reactions, anaphylaxis, arthralgia, conjunctival and scleral injection, drug fever and chills, epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, generalized skin eruptions, periorbital edema, photosensitization, serum sickness, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and urticaria.[Ref]
The use of sulfonamide antibiotics, including sulfadiazine, is associated with large increases in the risk of Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis, although these phenomena are rare as a whole.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included agranulocytosis (0.1%), aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia (0.05%), hypoprothrombinemia, leukopenia, methemoglobinemia, and purpura.[Ref]
Hemolytic anemia occurs less often with sulfadiazine than with other sulfonamides.  Aplastic anemia may be more likely in patients with poor bone marrow reserves.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhea, anorexia, pancreatitis, and stomatitis.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects are rare but can be serious.  Isolated cases of hepatitis and jaundice due to cholestasis have been associated with sulfadiazine.  Elevated liver function tests (with a negative hepatitis panel) have been reported in at least one case associated with psychosis.[Ref]
Psychosis associated with sulfadiazine and pyrimethamine therapy in patients with AIDS and CNS toxoplasmosis has been described in two separate case reports.  In each case, tremulousness and disorientation developed within three days to two weeks after starting therapy, despite partial resolution of the size of the intracranial T gondii lesions.  No other obvious cause for mental status changes was found.  The delirium resolved upon discontinuation of therapy in each case, and was reproducible upon rechallenge.  In one case, the patient had elevated liver function tests (hepatitis panel was negative), which were reversible upon discontinuation of therapy.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects have rarely included frank psychosis in patients with AIDS and CNS toxoplasmosis.  Tremulousness, disorientation, and delirium have been reported.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included ataxia, convulsions, hallucinations, headache, insomnia, mental depression, peripheral neuritis, tinnitus, and vertigo.[Ref]
Renal side effects have included crystalluria, lupus erythematosus, periarteritis nodosa, toxic nephrosis with oliguria and anuria, and acute renal failure secondary to crystalluria or tubulointerstitial nephritis.[Ref]
In one case, analysis of the stone fragments showed a composition of 100% acetylated 2-sulfanilamidopyrimidine, a metabolite of sulfadiazine.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included urolithiasis.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects have included hypoglycemia.[Ref]
Endocrine side effects associated with sulfonamides have rarely included diuresis, goiter production, and sialadenitis.[Ref]
1. Tenant-Flowers M, Boyle M, Carey D, et al "Sulphadiazine desenitization in patients with AIDS and cerebral toxoplasmosis." AIDS 5 (1991): 311-5
2. Finland M, Strauss E, Peterson O "Sulfadiazine." JAMA 251 (1984): 1467-74
3. Robson M, Levi J, Dolberg L, Rosenfeld J "Acute tubulo-interstitial nephritis following sulfadiazine therapy." Isr J Med Sci 6 (1970): 561-6
4. Finland M, Strauss E, Peterson O "Sulfadiazine." JAMA 116 (1941): 2641-7
5. Roujeau JC, Kelly JP, Naldi L, et al. "Medication use and the risk of Stevens-Johnson syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis." N Engl J Med 333 (1995): 1600-7
6. Goadsby P, Donaghy A, Lloyd A, Wakefield D "Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and sulfadiazine-associated acute renal failure." Ann Intern Med 107 (1987): 783-4
7. Carbone L, Bendixen B, Appel G "Sulfadiazine-associated obstructive nephropathy occurring in a patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome." Am J Kidney Dis 12 (1988): 72-5
8. Carrion-Carion C, Morales-Suarez-Varela MM, Llopis-Gonzalez A "Fatal Stevens-Johnson syndrome in an AIDS patient treated with sulfadiazine." Ann Pharmacother 33 (1999): 379
9. Pisanty S, Brayer L "Erythema multiforme-like eruption due to sulfadiazine." J Dent Med 20 (1965): 154-7
10. "Product Information. Sulfadiazine (sulfadiazine)." Eon Labs Manufacturing Inc, Laurelton, NY. 
11. Kounis GN,  Kouni SA,  Chiladakis JA,  Kounis NG "Comment: Mesalamine-Associated Hypersensitivity Myocarditis in Ulcerative Colitis and the Kounis Syndrome (February)." Ann Pharmacother 43 (2009): 393-4
12. Iaccheri B,  Fiore T,  Papadaki T, et al. "Adverse drug reactions to treatments for ocular toxoplasmosis: A retrospective chart review." Clin Ther 30 (2008): 2069-74
13. Puckett J, Cooper M, Stuart J, Wu WC, Sterchi JM "Pyrimethamine, sulfadiazine, and villous atrophy of the jejunum." Ann Intern Med 96 (1982): 380
14. Reboli AC, Mandler HD "Encephalopathy and psychoses associated with sulfadiazine in two patients with AIDS and CNS toxoplasmosis." Clin Infect Dis 15 (1992): 556-7
15. Young C "Acute encephalopathy associated with sulfadiazine in a patient with AIDS-related complex." J Infect Dis 160 (1989): 163-4
16. Dusseault BN,  Croce KJ,  Pais VM Jr "Radiographic characteristics of sulfadiazine urolithiasis." Urology 73 (2009): 928.e5-6
17. Schuler AK,  Talor Z "The case: 69 year old man with sand in the urine. N-acetylsulfadiazine crystals." Kidney Int 72 (2007): 769-70
18. Crespo M, Quereda C, Pascual J, Rivera M, Clemente L, Cano T "Patterns of sulfadiazine acute nephrotoxicity." Clin Nephrol 54 (2000): 68-72
19. Perazella MA "Drug-induced renal failure: update on new medications and unique mechanisms of nephrotoxicity." Am J Med Sci 325 (2003): 349-62
20. Marques LPJ, Madeira EPQ, Santos OR "Renal alterations induced by sulfadiazine therapy in an AIDS patients." Clin Nephrol 42 (1994): 68-9
21. Anibarro B, Fontela JL "Sulfadiazine-induced sialadenitis." Ann Pharmacother 31 (1997): 59-60
It is possible that some side effects of sulfadiazine may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Anxiety
blurred vision
changes in menstrual periods
chills
cold sweats
coma
confusion
cool, pale skin
decreased sexual ability in males
depression
dizziness
dry, puffy skin
fast heartbeat
feeling cold
headache
increased hunger
nausea
nervousness
nightmares
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
swelling of front part of the neck
unusual tiredness or weakness
weight gain


Abdominal or stomach pain
back, leg, or stomach pains
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
bleeding under the skin
blindness or vision changes
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating
blood in the urine or stools
bluish-colored lips, fingernails, or palms
burning of the face or mouth
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, painful, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chest pain
cloudy urine
clumsiness or unsteadiness
constipation
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
cough or hoarseness
cracks in the skin
darkened urine
decrease in the amount of urine
diarrhea
difficulty with breathing
difficulty with moving
dizziness or lightheadedness
feeling of discomfort
fever with or without chills
general body swelling
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
headache
hearing loss
indigestion
itching
joint or muscle pain
light-colored stools
loss of appetite and weight
loss of heat from the body
lower back or side pain
muscle pain or stiffness
nosebleeds
not able to pass urine
pain or burning while urinating
painful or difficult urination
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
pale skin
pinpoint red or purple spots on the skin
rapid heart rate
rash
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
red, swollen skin
redness of the white part of the eyes
scaly skin
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
seizures
shakiness and unsteady walk
shortness of breath
sore throat
soreness of the muscles
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
sudden decrease in amount of urine
swelling around the eyes
swelling of the face, hands, legs, and feet
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
swollen lymph glands
swollen or painful glands
tightness in the chest
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination
unusual bleeding or bruising
upper right abdominal pain
vision changes
vomiting
weakness in the hands or feet
wheezing
yellow eyes or skin


Feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
hives or welts
sensation of spinning
sleeplessness
trouble with sleeping
unable to sleep

