Generic Name: cefixime
Applies to cefixime: oral capsule, oral powder for suspension, oral tablet, oral tablet chewable
As well as its needed effects, cefixime (the active ingredient contained in Suprax) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking cefixime, check with your doctor immediately:
Some cefixime side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to cefixime: oral capsule, oral powder for reconstitution, oral tablet, oral tablet chewable
Cefixime (the active ingredient contained in Suprax) is generally well-tolerated.[Ref]
Pseudomembranous colitis may occur during or after treatment with cefixime (the active ingredient contained in Suprax) [Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea (16%), nausea (7%), loose or frequent stools (6%), flatulence (4%), abdominal pain (3%), dyspepsia (3%), vomiting, and pseudomembranous colitis.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity reactions have included urticaria, rash, pruritus, drug fever, angioedema, facial edema, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, serum sickness-like reactions, and toxic epidermal necrolysis.  Anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions, including shock and fatalities, have also been reported.[Ref]
A case of occupational contact dermatitis due to cephalosporin allergy has been reported in a nurse who prepared cephalosporin solutions for administration to patients.  The dermatitis resolved after the nurse stopped preparing the solutions.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included headache, dizziness, somnolence, and seizures.  At least one case of encephalopathy has been reported.[Ref]
Renal side effects have included transient rises in serum BUN and creatinine, and acute renal failure.  Cephalosporin class antibiotics have been associated with renal dysfunction and toxic nephropathy.[Ref]
Interstitial nephritis has been reported rarely in association with other cephalosporins.  Fever, azotemia, pyuria, and eosinophiluria are the hallmarks of this disorder.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included transient thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, leukopenia, neutropenia, and prothrombin time prolongation.  Cephalosporin class antibiotics have been associated with aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, hemorrhage, positive direct Coombs test, pancytopenia, and agranulocytosis.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included hepatitis, jaundice, and transient increases in SGPT, SGOT, and alkaline phosphatase.  Cephalosporin class antibiotics have been associated with hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects have included hyperbilirubinemia.  Cephalosporin class antibiotics have been associated with increases in LDH.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included genital pruritus, vaginitis, and candidiasis.[Ref]
Cephalosporin class antibiotics have been associated with superinfection.[Ref]
1. Gooch WM, Philips A, Rhoades R, Rosenberg R, Schaten R, Starobin S "Comparison of the efficacy, safety and acceptability of cefixime and amoxicillin/clavulanate in acute otitis media." Pediatr Infect Dis J 16 Suppl 2 (1997): s21-4
2. Shah PM, Troster K "Safety profile of cefixime: results of a german postmarketing surveillance study of 6361 patients." Curr Ther Res Clin Exp 55 (1994): 57-62
3. "Product Information. Suprax (cefixime)." Lupin Pharmaceuticals Inc, Baltimore, MD. 
4. Iravani A, Richard GA, Johnson D, Bryant A "A double-blind, multicenter, comparative study of the safety and efficacy of cefixime versus amoxicillin in the treatment of acute urinary tract infections in adult." Am J Med 85 (1988): 17-23
5. Tally FP, Desjardins RE, McCarthy EF, Cartwright K "Safety profile of cefixime." Pediatr Infect Dis J 6 (1987): 976-80
6. Filipe P, Almeida RSLS, Rodrigo FG "Occupational allergic contact dermatitis from cephalosporins." Contact Dermatitis 34 (1996): 226
7. Handsfield HH, McCormack WM, Hook EW, et al "A comparison of single-dose cefixime with ceftriaxone as treatment for uncomplicated gonorrhea." N Engl J Med 325 (1991): 1337-41
8. Romano A, Mayorga C, Torres MJ, Artesani MC, Suau R, Sanchez F, Perez E, Venuti A, Blanca M "Immediate allergic reactions to cephalosporins: Cross-reactivity and selective responses." J Allerg Clin Immunol 106 (2000): 1177-83
9. Capparelli FJ,  Diaz MF,  Hlavnika A,  Wainsztein NA,  Leiguarda R,  Del Castillo ME "Cefepime- and cefixime-induced encephalopathy in a patient with normal renal function." Neurology 65 (2005): 1840
10. Toll LL, Lee M, Sharifi R "Cefoxitin-induced interstitial nephritis." South Med J 80 (1987): 274-5
11. Hausen T, Weidlich G, Schmitt J "Safety and efficacy of cefixime in treatment of respiratory tract infections in germany." Infection 23 Suppl (1995): s65-9
It is possible that some side effects of Suprax may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Diarrhea
loose or frequent stools


Abdominal or stomach pain
agitation
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
blood in the urine or stools
chest pain
chills
clay-colored stools
coma
confusion
cough
dark urine
decreased urine output
depression
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
feeling of discomfort
fever
general tiredness and weakness
headache
hives, itching, or skin rash
hostility
inflammation of the joints
irritability
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
lethargy
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
muscle aches
muscle twitching
nausea and vomiting
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rapid weight gain
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
seizures
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stupor
swelling of the face, ankles, or hands
swollen glands
swollen lymph glands
tightness in the chest
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin


Abdominal or stomach cramps or tenderness
back, leg, or stomach pains
cough or hoarseness
coughing up blood
diarrhea, watery and severe, which may also be bloody
general body swelling
increased menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding
increased thirst
nosebleeds
pain paralysis
prolonged bleeding from cuts
red or black, tarry stools
red or dark brown urine
sudden decrease in the amount of urine
unpleasant breath odor
unusual weight loss


Acid or sour stomach
belching
bloated
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
full feeling
heartburn
hives or welts
indigestion
itching of the vagina or genital area itching or pain of the genital area
pain during sexual intercourse
passing gas
redness of the skin
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
white patches in the mouth or throat or on the tongue
white patches with diaper rash

