As well as its needed effects, lidocaine / tetracaine topical may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking lidocaine / tetracaine topical, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking lidocaine / tetracaine topical, get emergency help immediately:
Some lidocaine / tetracaine topical side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Local side effects have included erythema , blanching, edema, or abnormal sensation at the site of treatment.  The most common of the local reactions were erythema (71%), blanching (12%), and edema (12%).  These reactions were generally mild, and resolved spontaneously soon after treatment.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included allergic or anaphylactoid reactions to the active or inactive ingredients.  They may be characterized by urticaria, angioedema, bronchospasm, and shock.
Nervous system side effects are unlikely with appropriate use of lidocaine-tetracaine topical.  Potential side effect include CNS excitation and/or depression (light-headedness, nervousness, apprehension, euphoria, confusion, dizziness, drowsiness, tinnitus, blurred or double vision, vomiting, sensations of heat, cold, or numbness, twitching, tremors, convulsions, unconsciousness, respiratory depression and arrest).  Excitatory CNS reactions may be brief or not occur at all, in which case the first manifestation may be drowsiness developing into unconsciousness.  Signs of CNS toxicity may start at plasma concentrations of lidocaine as low as 1000 ng/mL.  The plasma concentrations at which tetracaine toxicity may occur are less well characterized; however, systemic toxicity with tetracaine is thought to occur with much lower plasma concentrations compared with lidocaine.  The toxicity of co-administered local anesthetics is thought to be at least additive.
Cardiovascular side effects are unlikely with appropriate use of lidocaine-tetracaine topical.  Potential side effects include bradycardia, hypotension and cardiovascular collapse leading to arrest.
It is possible that some side effects of Synera may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Flushing or redness of the skin
swelling
unusually warm skin
Blistering, burning, crusting, dryness, or flaking of the skin
change in the color of treated skin
itching, scaling, severe redness, soreness, or swelling of the skin
rash
Burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
cough or hoarseness
fainting or loss of consciousness
fast or irregular breathing
fever or chills
hives or welts
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
swelling of the eyes or eyelids
tightness in the chest or wheezing
trouble with breathing
Blurred vision
chest pain or discomfort
cold, clammy, or pale skin
confusion
difficulty with breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly
fast, slow, or irregular heartbeat
feelings of coldness, heat, or numbness
irregular, fast or slow, or shallow breathing
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
no breathing
noisy breathing
pale or blue lips, fingernails, or skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
seizures
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
shortness of breath
slow heart rate
sweating
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
twitching
unconsciousness
unusual tiredness or weakness
Change in consciousness
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
no blood pressure or pulse
stopping of heart
Headache
nausea
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
vomiting
Continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
depression
double vision
drowsiness
false or unusual sense of well-being
fear
hearing loss
nervousness