Common side effects of Synercid include: infusion site reaction, inflammation at injection site, pain at injection site, and swelling at injection site. Other side effects include: arthralgia, and myalgia.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, dalfopristin / quinupristin may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking dalfopristin / quinupristin, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some dalfopristin / quinupristin side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
In all 5 comparative studies, patients discontinued therapy with dalfopristin-quinupristin as compared to comparator for the following reasons: venous adverse events (9.2% versus 2% comparator), rash (1% versus 0.5% comparator), nausea (0.9% versus 0.6% comparator), vomiting (0.5% versus 0.5% comparator), pain (0.5% versus 0% comparator), and pruritus (0.5% versus 0.3% comparator).In the 2 comparative studies for complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSI), the side effect profile observed differed significantly from the profile observed in the other comparative studies.  In these 2 comparative cSSSI studies, patients discontinued therapy with dalfopristin-quinupristin as compared to comparator for the following reasons: venous adverse events (12% versus 2% comparator), rash (2% versus 0.9% comparator), nausea (1.1% versus 0% comparator), vomiting (0.9% versus 0% comparator), pain (0.9% versus 0% comparator), and pruritus (0.9% versus 0.5% comparator).  Venous adverse events were mainly observed in patients with peripheral infusions.In noncomparative studies, approximately one-third of patients discontinued therapy due to side effects; however, the discontinuation rate due to side effects possibly or probably related to dalfopristin-quinupristin was about 5%.  The side effects leading to therapy discontinuation included increased total bilirubin (2.7%), increased conjugated bilirubin (2.3%), treatment-related arthralgia (2.3%), and treatment-related myalgia (1.8%).  High baseline total and conjugated bilirubin levels were recorded in 46.5% and 59% of patients, respectively, prior to study entry.In a study with 93 patients, 21.5% discontinued treatment due to side effects.  The most common side effects were arthralgia, myalgia, nausea, and rash.
Local side effects have frequently included inflammation at the infusion site (all comparative studies: 42%; comparative cSSSI studies: 44.7%), pain at the infusion site (all comparative studies: 40%; comparative cSSSI studies: 38.2%), infusion site edema (all comparative studies: 17.3%; comparative cSSSI studies: 18%), and infusion site reaction (all comparative studies: 13.4%; comparative cSSSI studies: 11.6%).
The manufacturer recommends flushing of the vein with 5% dextrose in water solution following each infusion of dalfopristin-quinupristin to minimize venous irritation.  Consideration should be given to changing the infusion site in patients with moderate to severe venous irritation.  Dalfopristin-quinupristin infusion (standard diluent volume of 250 mL) may also be further diluted (500 to 750 mL) in these patients.  Venous adverse events occurred predominately in patients who had peripheral infusions; therefore, a peripherally inserted central catheter or a central venous catheter may be utilized in selected patients.
Some cases of arthralgia and myalgia noted improvement of symptoms with a reduction in dose frequency to every 12 hours.  Resolution of symptoms has been reported following discontinuation of dalfopristin-quinupristin.One trial with 93 patients reported an incidence of 10.8% and 8.6%, respectively, for arthralgia and myalgia.Intravenous dalfopristin-quinupristin plus minocycline were associated with myalgia and arthralgia in 36% of neutropenic cancer patients (n=56).
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgia (up to 7.8%; severe: 3.3%), arthralgia and myalgia (up to 7.4%), myalgia (up to 5.1%; severe: 3.1%), elevated creatine phosphokinase (greater than 10 times ULN; 1.6%), and myasthenia (less than 1%).  Bone pain and neck rigidity have been reported in less than 0.1% of patients.
Mild cases of pseudomembranous enterocolitis may respond to discontinuation of dalfopristin-quinupristin alone.  Moderate to severe cases may require fluid replacement, electrolytes, protein supplementation, and antibiotics for treating C difficile.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea (all comparative studies: 4.6%; comparative cSSSI studies: 4%; noncomparative studies: up to 4.9%), vomiting (all comparative studies: 2.7%; comparative cSSSI studies: 3.7%), and diarrhea (2.7%).  Abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, oral moniliasis, pancreatitis, pseudomembranous enterocolitis, and stomatitis have been reported in less than 1% of patients.  Gastrointestinal hemorrhage (less than 0.2%), mesenteric arterial occlusion (less than 0.1%), and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea have been reported.
Hepatic side effects have included increased conjugated bilirubin (greater than 5 times ULN; 3.1%), gamma-glutamyltransferase (greater than 10 times ULN; 1.9%), total bilirubin (greater than 5 times ULN; 0.9%), AST (greater than 10 times ULN; 0.9%), and ALT (greater than 10 times ULN; 0.4%).  Irrespective of relationship to dalfopristin-quinupristin, increased total bilirubin (greater than 5 times ULN; 25%) and conjugated bilirubin (greater than 5 times ULN; 34.6%) were reported during noncomparative studies.  Isolated hyperbilirubinemia (primarily conjugated bilirubin) can occur and is thought to be due to dalfopristin-quinupristin competing with bilirubin for excretion.  Hepatitis and jaundice have been reported in less than 0.1% of patients.
High baseline total and conjugated bilirubin levels were recorded in 46.5% and 59% of patients, respectively, prior to noncomparative study entry.
Cardiovascular side effects have included thrombophlebitis (all comparative studies: 2.4%), thrombus or thrombophlebitis (comparative cSSSI studies: 1.7%), and hypotension (less than 0.2%).  Palpitations, vasodilation, and phlebitis have been reported in less than 1% of patients.  Arrhythmia, cerebral hemorrhage, cerebrovascular accident, heart arrest, pericardial effusion, pericarditis, supraventricular tachycardia, ventricular extrasystoles, and ventricular fibrillation have been reported in less than 0.1% of patients.
Dermatologic side effects have included rash (all comparative studies: 2.5%; comparative cSSSI studies: 3.1%), pruritus (1.5%), and skin ulcer (less than 0.1%).  Maculopapular rash, sweating, and urticaria have been reported in less than 1% of patients.
Hematologic side effects have included decreased hemoglobin (less than 8 g/dL; 2.6%), decreased platelets (less than 50,000/mm3; 0.6%), increased hematocrit (greater than 60%; 0.2%), increased platelets (greater than 1,000,000/mm3; 0.2%), and reversible reticulocytopenia.  Coagulation disorder, hemolysis, hemolytic anemia, hypoplastic anemia, and pancytopenia have been reported in less than 0.1% of patients.
Metabolic side effects have included increased lactate dehydrogenase (greater than 5 times ULN; 2.6%), blood glucose (greater than 22.2 mmol/L; 1.3%), alkaline phosphatase (greater than 5 times ULN; 0.3%), bicarbonates (greater than 40 mmol/L; 0.3%), and potassium (greater than 6 mmol/L; 0.3%), and decreased bicarbonates (less than 10 mmol/L; 0.5%), sodium (less than 120 mmol/L; 0.5%), carbon dioxide (less than 15 mmol/L; 0.2%), and blood glucose (less than 2.2 mmol/L; 0.1%).  Gout has been reported in less than 1% of patients.  Acidosis, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, and hypovolemia have been reported in less than 0.1% of patients.  Alkalosis, hyperkalemia, and hyperglycemia have also been reported.
Nervous system side effects have included headache (1.6%).  Confusion, dizziness, hypertonia, insomnia, leg cramps, and paresthesia have been reported in less than 1% of patients.  Convulsion, dysautonomia, encephalopathy, grand mal convulsion, neuropathy, paraplegia, syncope, and tremor have been reported in less than 0.1% of patients.
Other side effects have included pain (all comparative studies: 1.5%; comparative cSSSI studies: 3.1%) and shock (less than 0.1%).  Abdominal pain, worsening of underlying illness, chest pain, fever, peripheral edema, and infection have been reported in less than 1% of patients.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included allergic reaction (less than 1%) and anaphylactoid reaction (less than 0.1%).  Angioedema and anaphylactic shock have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Respiratory side effects have included dyspnea and pleural effusion in less than 1% of patients.  Apnea, hypoventilation, hypoxia, and respiratory distress syndrome have been reported in less than 0.1%.
Genitourinary side effects have included hematuria and vaginitis in less than 1% of patients.
Psychiatric side effects have included anxiety in less than 1% of patients.
Renal side effects have included elevated BUN (35.5 mmol/L or greater; 0.3%) and creatinine (440 mcmol/L or greater; 0.1%).
It is possible that some side effects of Synercid may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Swelling, redness, or pain at the injection site
Changes in skin color
dry, red, hot, or irritated skin
joint pain
muscle pain
pain
redness, burning sensation, or pain under the skin usually in the injection site
swelling of the foot or leg
tenderness
Agitation
anxiety
back, leg, or stomach pains
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
blood in the urine
bloody, black, or tarry stools
blue lips, fingernails, or skin
blurred vision
bone pain
burning, tingling, numbness, or pain in the hands, arms, feet, or legs
chest pain or discomfort
chest pain, possibly moving to the left arm, neck, or shoulder
chills
coma
confusion
constipation
convulsions or seizures
cough or hoarseness
darkened urine
decreased urine output
difficult, fast, or labored breathing
difficult or painful urination
difficulty with moving
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
drowsiness
extremely shallow or slow breathing
fainting
fast, slow, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
feeling of warmth or heat
flushing or redness of the skin, especially on the face and neck
general body swelling
general tiredness and weakness
hallucinations
headache
high fever
hives
inability to speak
increased thirst
indigestion
irritability
itching
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
loss of bladder control
loss of consciousness
loss of strength or energy
lower back or side pain
muscle pain or cramps
muscle stiffness or weakness
nausea or vomiting
no blood pressure or pulse
nosebleeds
not breathing
pain in the joints
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
pale skin
problems with bleeding or clotting
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rapid weight gain
redness, burning sensation, or pain in the vagina
sensation of pins and needles
severe bloody diarrhea
severe or sudden headache
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
shortness of breath
skin rash
skin rash with red patches
slurred speech
sore throat
sores on the skin
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stabbing pain
stiff neck
stopping of the heart
sweating
swelling of the face, ankles, or hands
swollen glands
temporary blindness
tightness in the chest
tingling of the hands or feet
total body jerking
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
troubled breathing
unconsciousness
unexplained bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight gain or loss
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
vomiting
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
weakness in the arm or leg on one side of the body, sudden and severe
wheezing
worsening of the underlying disease
yellowing of the eyes or skin
Large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
Acid or sour stomach
ankle, knee, or great toe joint pain
belching
cold sweats
cool, pale skin
cramps in the legs
depression
excessive muscle tone
heartburn
hives or welts
increased hunger
itching of the vagina or genital area
joint stiffness or swelling
lower back or side pain
muscle tension or tightness
nightmares
pain during sexual intercourse
redness of the skin
shakiness
sleeplessness
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
sweating
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep
white patches in the mouth, tongue, or throat