Commonly reported side effects of tadalafil include: back pain, dyspepsia, headache, limb pain, myalgia, nausea, and flushing. Other side effects include: upper respiratory tract infection, back pain, myalgia, cough, and nasal congestion.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to tadalafil: oral tablet
As well as its needed effects, tadalafil may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking tadalafil, check with your doctor immediately:
Some tadalafil side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to tadalafil: oral tablet
The most commonly reported adverse reactions were headache, nausea, dyspepsia, back pain, myalgia, flushing, nasopharyngitis, and pain in the extremity.  These adverse reactions were dose dependent, transient, and generally mild or moderate.[Ref]
Most patients that experienced side effects such as myocardial infarction, sudden cardiac death, stroke, palpitations, and tachycardia had preexisting cardiovascular risk factors.  Many of these events were reported to occur during or shortly after sexual activity.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Flushing (up to 14%)Common (1% to 10%): Hypertension, hot flushUncommon (0.1% to 1%): HypotensionFrequency not reported: Unstable angina pectoris, postural hypotension, ventricular arrhythmiaPostmarketing reports: Myocardial infarction, sudden cardiac death, stroke, chest pain, palpitations, and tachycardia, have been reported in temporal association with the use of this drug.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Dyspepsia (up to 13%), nausea (up to 11%)Common (1% to 10%): Diarrhea, gastroesophageal reflux disease, abdominal pain, gastroenteritis, constipationUncommon (0.1% to 1%): VomitingFrequency not reported: Dry mouth, dysphagia, esophagitis, gastritis, loose stools, nausea, upper abdominal pain, hemorrhoidal hemorrhage, rectal hemorrhage[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Myalgia (up to 14%), back pain (up to 12%), pain in extremity (up to 11%)Common (1% to 10%): Pain in limb, musculoskeletal stiffnessUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Arthralgia, muscle spasmFrequency not reported: Neck pain[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Headache (up to 42%)Common (1% to 10%): Dizziness (1%)Rare (less than 0.1%): Transient global amnesia, transient ischemic attacksFrequency not reported: Hypesthesia, somnolence, syncope, paraesthesiaPostmarketing reports: Migraine, seizure and seizure recurrence[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Nasopharyngitis (up to 13%), upper and lower respiratory tract infection (up to 13%)Common (1% to 10%): Nasal congestion (including sinus congestion), cough, influenza, pulmonary hypertension, rhinitisUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Dyspnea, epistaxisFrequency not reported: Pharyngitis[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infection, menorrhagia (including uterine bleeding)Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Penile hemorrhage, hematospermiaRare (less than 0.1%): Prolonged erectionsFrequency not reported: Erection increased, spontaneous penile erection Postmarketing reports: Priapism[Ref]
In some of the cases, medical conditions and other factors were reported that may have also played a role in the otologic adverse events.  In many cases, medical follow-up information was limited.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Peripheral edema, fatigue, edemaUncommon (0.1% to 1%): TinnitusRare (less than 0.1%): Facial edemaFrequency not reported: Vertigo, asthenia, painPostmarketing reports: Cases of sudden decrease or loss of hearing have been reported in temporal association with the use of this drug.[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Rash, urticaria, hyperhidrosis (sweating)Rare (less than 0.1%): AngioedemaFrequency not reported: PruritusPostmarketing reports: Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis[Ref]
Most of the patients with NAION, but not all, had underlying anatomic or vascular risk factors, including but not necessarily limited to: Low cup to disc ratio ("crowded disc"), age over 50, diabetes, hypertension, coronary artery disease, hyperlipidemia, and smoking.[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Ocular hyperemia, eye pain, eyelid edemaRare (less than 0.1%): Changes in color visionFrequency not reported: Blurred vision, conjunctivitis (including conjunctival hyperemia), eye pain, lacrimation increasedPostmarketing reports: Visual field defect, retinal vein occlusion, and retinal artery occlusion.  Non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION), a cause of decreased vision including permanent loss of vision, has been reported in temporal association with the use of this drug.[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): HematuriaFrequency not reported: Renal impairment[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Abnormal liver function tests, GGTP increased[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Cialis (tadalafil)." Lilly, Eli and Company, Indianapolis, IN. 
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
3. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
4. "Product Information. Adcirca (tadalafil)." United Therapeutics Corporation, Silver Spring, MD. 
5. Kloner RA,  Mitchell M,  Emmick JT "Cardiovascular effects of tadalafil." Am J Cardiol 92(9 Suppl) (2003): 37-46
6. Kloner RA,  Mitchell M,  Emmick JT "Cardiovascular effects of tadalafil in patients on common antihypertensive therapies." Am J Cardiol 92(9A) (2003): 47M-57M
It is possible that some side effects of tadalafil may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Arm, back, or jaw pain
blurred vision
chest pain or discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
chills
cold sweats
confusion
dizziness
fainting
faintness or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fast or irregular heartbeat
headache
hearing loss
nausea
nervousness
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
pounding in the ears
shortness of breath
slow or fast heartbeat
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting


Painful or prolonged erection of the penis


Abdominal or stomach pain
blindness
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
cough
cracks in the skin
decrease or change in vision
diarrhea
difficulty with speaking
double vision
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
headache, severe and throbbing
hives or welts
inability to move the arms, legs, or facial muscles
inability to speak
itching
joint or muscle pain
loss of heat from the body
numbness or tingling of the face, hands, or feet
red irritated eyes
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, swollen skin
redness of the skin
redness or soreness of the eyes
scaly skin
skin rash
slow speech
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
sudden cardiac death
swelling of the feet or lower legs


Acid or sour stomach
belching
heartburn
indigestion
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain


Bloody nose
body aches or pain
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
burning, dry, or itching eyes
burning feeling in the chest or stomach
congestion
difficulty with moving
difficulty with swallowing
dry mouth
dryness or soreness of the throat
excessive eye discharge
eye pain
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
feeling of warmth, redness of the face, neck, arms and occasionally, upper chest
fever
hoarseness
increased erection
lack or loss of strength
loose stools
muscle aching or cramping
muscle stiffness
nasal congestion
neck pain
pain
pain in the arms or legs
pain or burning in the throat
redness, pain, swelling of the eye, eyelid, or inner lining of the eyelid
reduced sensitivity to touch
runny nose
sensation of spinning
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sleeplessness
spontaneous penile erection
stomach upset
swelling of the eyelids
swelling or puffiness of the eyes or face
swollen joints
tearing
tender, swollen glands in the neck
tenderness in the stomach area
trouble with sleeping
unable to sleep
upper abdominal or stomach pain
voice changes
watering of the eyes


Changes in color vision

