Generic Name: naloxone / pentazocine
Applies to naloxone / pentazocine: oral tablet
As well as its needed effects, naloxone / pentazocine may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking naloxone / pentazocine, check with your doctor immediately:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking naloxone / pentazocine, get emergency help immediately:

Some naloxone / pentazocine side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to naloxone / pentazocine: oral tablet
A 45-year-old male narcotic addict and alcoholic with hepatitis and undiscovered cardiomyopathy was given 0.8 mg of naloxone intravenously over a 2 minute period and developed ventricular fibrillation.  The patient required naloxone once more for this episode and again developed ventricular fibrillation.  A second opioid overdose in the same patient was treated with an initial dose of 0.4 mg intravenously, followed by 0.4 mg intravenously, then intramuscularly.  Each time the patient developed ventricular fibrillation responsive to cardioversion and/or lidocaine.  Severe hypertension (mean arterial pressure rising from a baseline of 107 mmHg to 147 mmHg in about 2 to 3 hours) has been reported in an essential hypertension patient given an initial 8 mg dose of naloxone intravenously, followed by an infusion of 0.13 mg/min over the next 2.5 hours.  When the naloxone was discontinued the blood pressure quickly returned to normal.Mild hypotension and one case of moderate hypertension were observed in patients receiving a bolus dose of 4 mg/kg of naloxone followed by 2 mg/kg/hour for 24 hours.  One study reported that the newborn infants of mothers who have received naloxone near term may experience tachycardia.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects with the use of naloxone have included hypotension, hypertension, atrial and ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, left ventricular failure and cardiac arrest (mostly in postoperative patients, many of whom had cardiovascular disease).Cardiovascular side effects including a decrease in blood pressure and tachycardia have been reported infrequently with the use of pentazocine.[Ref]
Withdrawal syndromes from the use of naloxone may be precipitated by as little as 0.05 to 0.2 mg intravenously in patients taking 24 mg per day of methadone.[Ref]
Other side effect including withdrawal in patients receiving opioids have been precipitated by naloxone.  Withdrawal is characterized by nausea, vomiting, sweating, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, cramping, insomnia, chills/hot flashes, piloerection, tachycardia, anxiety, restlessness, irritability, tremulousness, hypertension, seizures, and cardiac arrest.  Similar symptoms have been noted in patients with pruritus of cholestasis who were not receiving opiates.Other side effects including tinnitus have been reported with the use of pentazocine.[Ref]
Three cases, treated with numerous drugs, developed clinical evidence of pulmonary edema shortly after intravenous administration of naloxone (0.3 to 1.6 mg).[Ref]
Respiratory side effects including pulmonary edema have been uncommon from the use of naloxone.Respiratory side effects including respiratory depression have rarely been reported with the use of pentazocine.[Ref]
A 51-year-old male was given 0.8 mg of naloxone for obtundation.  Within 30 seconds of administration a grand mal seizure occurred.  The patient had Pseudomonas sepsis with negative CSF cultures.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects including seizures and paresthesias have been reported at both standard and high dosages of naloxone.  Seizures have been reported in 5% of patients receiving a bolus of 4 mg/kg followed by 2 mg/kg/h for 24 hours.  Agitation has been noted in 3%,  tremors in 3%, and headache in 5%.  Rarely, agitation, tremors, headache, alteration in mood and cognition, mental discomfort, sleepiness, and confusion have been reported at high dosages.  Lethargy has been reported in manic and control patients.  Naloxone administration may worsen obsessive compulsive behavior.Nervous system side effects including sweating, dizziness, lightheadedness, hallucinations, sedation, euphoria, headache, confusion, and disorientation have been reported with the use of pentazocine.  Weakness, flushing, disturbed dreams, insomnia, and syncope have been reported infrequently.  Tremor, chills, paresthesia, irritability, and excitement have been reported rarely.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects of nausea and vomiting have been reported in patients receiving high dose naloxone therapy.Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea and vomiting have been reported with the use of pentazocine.  Constipation has been reported infrequently.  Abdominal distress, anorexia, and diarrhea have been reported rarely.[Ref]
Nausea and/or vomiting occurred in 32% of patients in one study on naloxone who received a bolus of 4 mg/kg followed by 2 mg/kg/h for 24 hours.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects including an increase in urinary urgency have rarely been reported with the use of naloxone.  The drug may also have a mild diuretic effect.Genitourinary side effects including urinary retention have rarely been reported with the use of pentazocine.[Ref]
A 75-year-old was treated with naloxone for senile dementia.  A dosage of 0.8 mg in 25 mL of normal saline was given as an infusion over 10 minutes.  The treatment was given 6 times, each time the patient experienced urinary urgency (at least 5 small volume urinations over 2 hours).[Ref]
Depression of the white blood cell count is usually reversible.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects including depression of the white blood cell count (especially granulocytes) and moderate transient eosinophilia have been reported with the use of pentazocine.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity reactions including rash have been reported infrequently.  Urticaria and edema of the face have been reported rarely with the use of pentazocine.  One instance of an apparent anaphylactic reaction has been reported.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects including erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported rarely with the use of pentazocine.[Ref]
Ocular side effects including visual blurring and focusing difficulty have been reported infrequently with the use of pentazocine.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects including depression have been reported infrequently with the use of pentazocine.[Ref]
1. Levin ER, Sharp B, Drayer JI, Weber MA "Severe hypertension induced by naloxone." Am J Med Sci 290 (1985): 70-2
2. Groeger JS, Inturrisi CE "High-dose naloxone: pharmacokinetics in patients in septic shock." Crit Care Med 15 (1987): 751-6
3. Chamberlain JM, Klein BL "A comprehensive review of naloxane for the emergency physician." Am J Emerg Med 12 (1994): 650-60
4. "Product Information. Narcan (naloxone)." DuPont Pharmaceuticals, Wilmington, DE. 
5. Marone G "Tacrolimus ointment for atopic dermatitis." N Engl J Med 339 (1998): 1788
6. "Hoechst-Roussel Altace gains new indication for decreased risk of death." F-D-C Reports -- "The Pink Sheet" 57 (1995): t&g5-6
7. Harrington LW "Acute pulmonary edema following use of naloxone: a case study." Crit Care Nurse 8 (1988): 69-73
8. Brimacombe J, Archdeacon J, Newell S, Martin J "Two cases of naloxone-induced pulmonary oedema--the possible use of phentolamine in management." Anaesth Intensive Care 19 (1991): 578-80
9. Mariani PJ "Seizure associated with low-dose naloxone." Am J Emerg Med 7 (1989): 127-9
10. Sandyk R, Gillman MA "Naloxone causes urinary urgency." Urology 27 (1986): 79
11. Leehey DJ, Gollapudi P, Deakin A, Reid RW "Naloxone increases water and electrolyte excretion after water loading in patients with cirrhosis and ascites." J Lab Clin med 118 (1991): 484-91
It is possible that some side effects of Talwin Nx may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Black, tarry stools
chest pain
chills
cough or hoarseness
difficult or troubled breathing
fever
fever with or without chills
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
irregular, fast or slow, or shallow breathing
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
pale or blue lips, fingernails, or skin
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swollen glands
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness


Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
confusion
decrease in the frequency of urination
diarrhea
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fainting
fast, slow, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
feeling of warmth
headache
hives
itching
joint or muscle pain
loss of bladder control
loss of consciousness
nervousness
pounding in the ears
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rapid breathing
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
skin rash
sweating
swelling of the lower legs or arms
swelling of the face
tightness in the chest
total body jerking
upper abdominal or stomach pain
weight gain
wheezing


Seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
seizures (convulsions)
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness 


Abdominal or stomach distress
hives or welts
redness of the skin


Blistering, crusting, irritation, itching, or reddening of the skin
confusion about identity, place, and time
constipation
constricted, pinpoint, or small pupils (black part of the eye)
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
cracked, dry, or scaly skin
depression
difficulty in focusing the eyes
disturbed dreams
drowsiness
dry mouth
excitement
false or unusual sense of well-being
hearing loss
irritability
lightheadedness
loss of appetite
mood or mental changes
nausea
relaxed and calm feeling
trouble with sleeping
unable to sleep
vomiting
weakness
weight loss

