Commonly reported side effects of telithromycin include: diarrhea. Other side effects include: headache and nausea.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to telithromycin: oral tablet
As well as its needed effects, telithromycin may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking telithromycin, check with your doctor immediately:
Some telithromycin side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to telithromycin: oral tablet
Severe liver injury and acute liver failure (in some cases fatal) have been reported.  Such hepatic reactions were observed during or immediately after therapy and included fulminant hepatitis and hepatic necrosis leading to liver transplant.  In some cases, liver injury progressed rapidly and occurred after a few doses of this drug were administered.  Less severe liver dysfunction (associated with reversible hepatitis, elevated liver enzymes, and sometimes jaundice) has been reported.Drug-related hepatotoxicity was reported in a 46-year-old man receiving treatment for an ear and sinus infection.  The patient presented with a 4-day history of malaise, dark urine, jaundice, mild pruritus, and anorexia.  The patient denied toxin exposure, IV drug abuse, or hepatic injury.  ALT 948 units/L, AST 200 units/L, total bilirubin 65 mmol/L, and alkaline phosphatase 291 units/L were observed.  These values warranted withdrawal of this drug and within 2 weeks the ALT decreased to 450 units/L and his jaundice resolved.  After 8 weeks, the patient's liver tests had normalized.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Increased liver enzymes (AST, ALT, alkaline phosphatase, GGT)Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Hepatitis (with or without jaundice)Rare (0.01% to 0.1%): Cholestatic jaundiceFrequency not reported: Abnormal liver function tests, increased transaminases (ALT, AST), elevated blood bilirubin, increased ALT (at least 3 times the upper limit of normal), hepatocellular and/or cholestatic hepatitis (with or without jaundice), severe liver toxicity, hepatotoxicity (including acute liver failure, severe liver injury)Postmarketing reports: Hepatic dysfunction, fulminant hepatitis, hepatic necrosis, hepatic failure, severe hepatitis[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Diarrhea (10.8%)Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, vomiting, gastrointestinal pain, flatulenceUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Constipation, oral candidiasis, stomatitisVery rare (less than 0.01%): Pseudomembranous colitisFrequency not reported: Abdominal distension, dry mouth, dyspepsia, gastrointestinal upset, gastroenteritis, gastritis, glossitis, Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea, loose stools, watery stoolsPostmarketing reports: Pancreatitis[Ref]
Pseudomembranous colitis has also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Exacerbations of myasthenia gravis (including fatal and life-threatening acute respiratory failure) have been reported.  Rapid onset was observed in some cases, occurring within a few hours after the first dose.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Headache, dizziness (excluding vertigo), taste disturbance/dysgeusiaUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Somnolence, vertigoRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Paresthesia, transient loss of consciousnessVery rare (less than 0.01%): ParosmiaPostmarketing reports: Loss of consciousness (in some cases associated with vagal syndrome), exacerbation of myasthenia gravis, tremors, convulsions, taste/smell perversion, ageusia, anosmia, hearing loss[Ref]
Fatal and life-threatening acute respiratory failure has been reported in patients with myasthenia gravis.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Acute respiratory failure, rhinitis, upper respiratory infectionPostmarketing reports: Dyspnea[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Vaginal candidiasisFrequency not reported: Vaginitis, fungal vaginosisPostmarketing reports: Chromaturia[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Flush/flushing, palpitationsRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Atrial arrhythmia, hypotension, bradycardiaFrequency not reported: Increased QTc intervalPostmarketing reports: QT/QTc interval prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias (including ventricular tachycardia, torsades de pointes) with potential fatal outcome, ischemic cardiac events (in the context of hypersensitivity reactions)[Ref]
Ventricular arrhythmias (including ventricular tachycardia, torsades de pointes) have sometimes occurred within a few hours after the first dose.Atrial arrhythmias and palpitation have also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Visual disturbances (some severe) most often included blurred vision, difficulty focusing, or diplopia; some patients stopped therapy due to these effects.  Most visual side effects were reported after the first or second dose, lasted several hours, and recurred with subsequent doses in some patients.  Symptoms continued throughout the entire course of therapy in some patients and resolved spontaneously during therapy in others.  Females and patients up to 40 years of age had a higher rate of these side effects (females up to 40 years: 2.1%; females older than 40 years: 1%; males up to 40 years: 1.2%; males older than 40 years: 0.27%).[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Blurred visionRare (0.01% to 0.1%): DiplopiaFrequency not reported: Visual disturbances (including blurred vision, difficulty focusing, diplopia)[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Rash, pruritus, urticariaRare (0.01% to 0.1%): EczemaVery rare (less than 0.01%): Erythema multiformeFrequency not reported: Increased sweatingPostmarketing reports: Angioneurotic edema[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): EosinophiliaFrequency not reported: Increased platelet count, increased eosinophil count[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): AnorexiaFrequency not reported: Increased blood alkaline phosphatase[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Insomnia, nervousnessFrequency not reported: AnxietyPostmarketing reports: Confusion, hallucinations (mostly visual)
Muscle cramps have also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Very rare (less than 0.01%): Muscle crampsPostmarketing reports: Arthralgia, myalgia[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Severe allergic reactions (including angioedema, anaphylaxis), anaphylactic reactions (including anaphylactic shock), hypersensitivity[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Abdominal pain, fatigue, upper abdominal painPostmarketing reports: Face edema
1. Onur O,  Guneysel O,  Denizbasi A,  Celikel C "Acute hepatitis attack after exposure to telithromycin." Clin Ther 29 (2007): 1725-1729
2. Clay KD,  Hanson JS,  Pope SD,  Rissmiller RW,  Purdum PP 3rd,  Banks MD "Brief Communication: Severe hepatotoxicity of telithromycin: three case reports and literature review. Available from: URL: http://www.acponline.org/journals/annals/hepatotoxicity.htm."   ([2006 Mar 21]):
3. Clay KD,  Hanson JS,  Pope SD,  Rissmiller RW,  Purdum PP 3rd,  Banks PM "Brief communication: severe hepatotoxicity of telithromycin: three case reports and literature review." Ann Intern Med 144 (2006): E1-E6
4. "Product Information. Ketek (telithromycin)." Aventis Pharmaceuticals, Bridgewater, NJ. 
5. Owens RC Jr,  Nolin TD "Antimicrobial-Associated QT Interval Prolongation: Pointes of Interest." Clin Infect Dis 43 (2006): 1603-1611
6. Nieman RB,  Sharma K,  Edelberg H,  Caffe SE "Telithromycin and myasthenia gravis." Clin Infect Dis 37 (2003): 1579
It is possible that some side effects of telithromycin may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Abdominal or stomach pain
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
blurred vision
chest pain or discomfort
chills
confusion
convulsions
cough
dark urine
decreased urine
difficulty with breathing, chewing, swallowing, or talking
dizziness
double vision
drooping eyelids
dry mouth
fainting
faintness or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fast, slow, or irregular heartbeat
fever with or without chills
increased thirst
itching
joint pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
mood changes
muscle pain or cramps
muscle weakness
nausea
nervousness
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
red, irritated eyes
shortness of breath
skin rash
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips or tongue
stomach cramps, tenderness, or pain
sweating
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
vomiting
watery or bloody diarrhea
weakness or heaviness of the legs
wheezing
yellow eyes and skin


Black, tarry stools
clay-colored stools
continuous vomiting
dark-colored urine
decreased appetite
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
swelling of the feet or lower legs
unpleasant breath odor
vomiting of blood


Diarrhea


Abnormal dreams
acid or sour stomach
belching
bloated, full feeling, or pressure in the stomach
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
burning feeling in the chest or stomach
change in color, amount, or odor of vaginal discharge
change in sense of smell
change in taste
difficulty focusing the eyes
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
disturbed attention span
dry lips
dry skin
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
feeling of warmth, redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
frequent urination
headache
heartburn
increased amount of pale, dilute urine
indigestion
itching of the vagina or outside genitals
lack or loss of strength
lightheadedness
loose stools
loss of appetite
loss of sense of taste
pain during sexual intercourse
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
passing gas more often than usual
redness of the skin
redness, swelling, or soreness of the tongue
sensation of spinning
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
skin rash, encrusted, scaly, and oozing
sleeplessness
sore mouth or tongue
sore throat
stomach upset or pain
stuffy or runny nose
swelling or puffiness of the face
tenderness in the stomach area
thick, white curd-like vaginal discharge, without odor or with mild odor
tooth discoloration
trouble sleeping
weight loss
white patches in the mouth and on the tongue

