Commonly reported side effects of terazosin include: dizziness. Other side effects include: asthenia, headache, and peripheral edema.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, terazosin may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking terazosin, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some terazosin side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Syncope has occurred in less than 1% of patients.  Palpitations have been reported in 5% of patients, but are much less likely than with some other alpha-adrenergic blockers.  Peripheral edema, cold extremities, and chest pain have been reported in up to 6%, 12%, and 5% of patients, respectively.  Atrial fibrillation has been reported (incidence not given).
Cardiovascular side effects have included orthostatic hypotension, which generally occurs within 30 to 60 minutes after the first dose.  For this reason, it is recommended that the first dose be administered at bedtime.  Other symptoms of hypotension, such as mild to moderate dizziness, lightheadedness, palpitations and weakness have occurred in 1% to 30% of patients.  Some cardiovascular side effects, particularly dizziness, have been more prevalent among persons greater than 65 years old.
Ocular side effects including Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome (IFIS) have been observed in some patients undergoing phacoemulsification cataract surgery while being treated with alpha-1 blockers.
Most reports were in patients treated with an alpha-1 blocker at the time IFIS occurred, but in some instances the alpha-1 blocker had been stopped prior to surgery.  The manufacturer recommends that patients be questioned to determine whether or not they have taken alpha-1 blockers prior to being considered for cataract surgery.  If it is determined that the patient has taken an alpha-1 blocker, the patient's ophthalmologist should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique that may be necessary should IFIS be observed during the procedure.
Nervous system side effects, such as dizziness (5% to 30% of patients) and blurred vision (2% of patients) may be related to hypotension.  Headaches (2% to 10%), asthenia (8%), and somnolence (6%) have occurred following long-term use.
Metabolic side effects have included decreases in serum triglycerides and VLDL cholesterol, and increases in HDL cholesterol.  Terazosin may counterbalance deleterious effects on the lipid profile associated with thiazide diuretics, making it a reasonable drug to use in combination with these agents.
Musculoskeletal complaints of pain or cold extremities have been reported in up to 17% and 12% of patients, respectively.
Nasal congestion and symptoms of sinusitis or dyspnea may be due to alpha-adrenergic blockade.
Respiratory system side effects have been limited to nasal congestion in 2% to 12% of patients.
Gastrointestinal problems have been limited mainly to nausea in 5% of patients.
Only 4% of 354 patients from a multicenter trial complained of general abdominal pain or diarrhea within the first 90 days of therapy.
Genitourinary complaints have rarely included impotence and priapism.
In a study of 226 patients on terazosin for up to 2 years, only 2 discontinued therapy due to rash.
Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported, including anaphylaxis and rashes.
Dermatologic side effects of skin rash have been reported rarely.  Lichenoid drug eruption has been associated with terazosin therapy.
A 56-year-old white male developed a generalized scaling erythematous rash on the third day after starting terazosin 2 mg daily for benign prostatic hypertrophy.  The rash was accompanied by mild fever, asthenia, and intense pruritus.  The patient was on no other medications.  Hematologic and histopathologic studies suggested a drug reaction.  Terazosin was discontinued.  Two weeks following oral methylprednisolone (40 mg daily) and emollients, symptoms had resolved completely.
Hematologic side effects have included thrombocytopenia.
It is possible that some side effects of terazosin may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Dizziness
Chest pain
dizziness or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position
 fainting (sudden)
fast or irregular heartbeat
pounding heartbeat
shortness of breath 
swelling of feet or lower legs
Weight gain
Headache
unusual tiredness or weakness 
Back or joint pain
blurred vision
drowsiness
nausea and vomiting
stuffy nose