Commonly reported side effects of terbinafine include: headache. Other side effects include: diarrhea, dyspepsia, and skin rash.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to terbinafine: oral packet, oral tablet
As well as its needed effects, terbinafine may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking terbinafine, check with your doctor immediately:
Some terbinafine side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to terbinafine: oral granule, oral tablet
In general, side effects have been mild to moderate and transient; however, this drug has been associated with serious life-threatening events such as hepatic failure, anaphylaxis, and severe neutropenia.  Unless otherwise specified, the listed side effects were reported with the tablets.[Ref]
Taste disturbances were typically noticed 5 to 8 weeks after starting therapy and returned to normal within several weeks after stopping the medication.  The taste alteration has been rarely accompanied by a discoloration of the tongue and/or a disturbance in the sense of smell.Hypogeusia (including ageusia) usually recovered within several weeks after this drug was stopped.  Isolated cases of prolonged hypogeusia have been reported.Taste disturbance (including taste loss), paresthesia, hypoesthesia, tinnitus, and vertigo have also been reported during postmarketing experience.  Some cases of taste disturbance were severe enough to cause decreased food intake, weight loss, anxiety, and depressive symptoms.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Headache (12.9%)Common (1% to 10%): Taste disturbance/dysgeusia (including taste loss/ageusia), dizzinessUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Hypogeusia, ageusia, paresthesia, hypoesthesia, tinnitusVery rare (less than 0.01%): Vertigo, sedation, lightheadednessFrequency not reported: Taste alterationPostmarketing reports: Smell disturbance (including loss of smell), paresthesia, hypoesthesia, hearing impairment, hypoacusis, anosmia (including permanent anosmia), hyposmia[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Gastrointestinal symptoms, feeling of fullness, abdominal distension, diarrhea, dyspepsia/gastritis, nausea, abdominal pain, flatulence, vomiting, mild abdominal discomfort, abdominal cramps, belchingCommon (1% to 10%): Upper abdominal painUncommon (0.1% to 1%): ToothacheVery rare (less than 0.01%): Parotid swellingFrequency not reported: Mild to moderate gastrointestinal discomfort, gastritis, gastric fullness, nausea and vomiting, discoloration of the tongue, hypogeusia, ageusia, metallic taste, severe sialadenitisPostmarketing reports: Pancreatitis[Ref]
Vomiting, upper abdominal pain, and toothache have been reported with the oral granules.  Vomiting has also been reported during postmarketing experience with the tablets.[Ref]
An 81-year-old male who had been treated with topical antifungal agents for tinea pedis started this drug (125 mg orally daily) as the lesions did not respond to topical therapy.  He was not taking any other medications and had no history of skin disease.  No other skin lesions were observed at that time.  Two weeks later, he developed erythematous and pustular lesions on his fingers and toes, and an erythematous macular eruption on the limbs.  This drug was discontinued, but the eruptions continued to worsen.  Histopathology of a punch biopsy from his toe showed intraepidermal sterile pustules containing neutrophils, so-called Kogoj's spongiform pustules.  He was then diagnosed with having acrodermatitis continua of Hallopeau and was treated with corticosteroids therapy.An 80-year-old female experienced DRESS secondary to severe sialadenitis coincident with this drug.  The patient was admitted with a generalized pruriginous eruption.  She presented with erythematous and edematous widespread confluent plaques, with a scaly annular border.  She had initiated therapy 14 days before onset of the generalized rash, for a nonspecific squamous plaque of the trunk.  DRESS induced by this drug was diagnosed and therapy was discontinued.  Topical therapy was started with 0.5% clobetasol propionate cream applied to the whole body.  The rash progressively improved and blood eosinophilia decreased.A 68-year-old male experienced acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis coincident with this drug.  He presented with a symmetrical maculopapular eruption on both lower anterior legs.  Within 2 days, the rash generalized with facial involvement.  He developed the rash 20 days after initiating oral therapy for onychomycosis.  After withdrawal of this drug, the exanthema abated within 10 days under topical therapy with corticosteroids.Serious skin reactions (e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, bullous dermatitis), psoriasiform eruptions or exacerbation of psoriasis, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, hair loss, and photosensitivity reactions have also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Nonserious forms of skin reactions, rash, urticariaCommon (1% to 10%): Pruritus, erythemaUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Photosensitivity reactionsVery rare (less than 0.01%): Serious skin reactions (e.g., Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, bullous dermatitis), photosensitivity (e.g., photodermatosis, photosensitivity allergic reaction, polymorphic light eruption), alopecia/hair loss, psoriasiform eruptions or exacerbation of psoriasis, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, toxic skin eruptionFrequency not reported: Reversible alopecia areata of the scalp, pustular psoriasis, acrodermatitis continua of HallopeauPostmarketing reports: Serious skin reactions (e.g., drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms [DRESS] syndrome)[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Decreased appetite/anorexiaFrequency not reported: Hypoglycemia, decreased food intake (due to taste disturbance)[Ref]
Arthralgia and myalgia have also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Musculoskeletal reactions, arthralgia, myalgiaVery rare (less than 0.01%): Cutaneous and systemic lupus erythematosusPostmarketing reports: Rhabdomyolysis, increased blood creatine phosphokinase, precipitation and exacerbation of cutaneous and systemic lupus erythematosus[Ref]
Liver enzyme abnormalities (at least 2 times the upper limit of normal) have been reported in 3.3% of patients.In most liver failure cases, patients had serious underlying systemic conditions; causal association with this drug was unclear.A 57-year-old male with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection developed drug-induced acute autoimmune hepatitis coincident with this drug.  He was given 250 mg once daily over a 12-week period for dermatophyte toenail onychomycosis.  He developed the side effect just prior to completing the course of therapy.  He was not taking any other drugs or herbal supplements, did not drink alcohol, and did not appear to suffer a flare of HBV infection.  Liver function studies began to normalize 6 weeks after this drug was discontinued.Cases of liver failure (some leading to death or liver transplant), hepatitis, cholestasis, and increased hepatic enzymes have also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Liver enzyme abnormalitiesRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Serious liver dysfunction (including hepatic failure, increased hepatic enzymes, jaundice, cholestasis, liver decompensation, hepatitis), transient increases in liver enzymes, hepatobiliary dysfunction, cholestatic jaundice, liver failure (some cases leading to death or liver transplant)Frequency not reported: Development of idiosyncratic and symptomatic hepatobiliary dysfunction, drug-induced autoimmune hepatitisPostmarketing reports: Idiosyncratic and symptomatic hepatic injury[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): DepressionVery rare (less than 0.01%): AnxietyFrequency not reported: InsomniaPostmarketing reports: Anxiety (independent of taste disturbance), depressive symptoms (independent of taste disturbance), anxiety (secondary to taste disturbances), depressive symptoms (secondary to taste disturbances)[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Pyrexia, tiredness/fatigueUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Weight decreasedRare (0.01% to 0.1%): Malaise (secondary to dysgeusia)Very rare (less than 0.01%): Chest painFrequency not reported: Weight loss (due to taste disturbance), weight decreased (secondary to hypogeusia)Postmarketing reports: Influenza-like illness
Pyrexia has been reported with the oral granules; it has also been reported during postmarketing experience with the tablets.Malaise and fatigue have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Common (1% to 10%): Nasopharyngitis, cough, upper respiratory tract infection, influenza, pharyngolaryngeal pain, rhinorrhea, nasal congestion
Nasopharyngitis, cough, upper respiratory tract infection, influenza, pharyngolaryngeal pain, rhinorrhea, and nasal congestion have been reported with the oral granules.
Changes in the ocular lens and retina have been reported; however, the clinical significance is unknown.Dyschromatopsia, whereby the patient reported a greenish hue in her vision, and photopsia have occurred in a patient after 3 weeks of therapy.  This problem resolved within 1 week of discontinuing the drug.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Visual disturbanceFrequency not reported: Changes in ocular lens and retina, dyschromatopsia, photopsiaPostmarketing reports: Reduced visual acuity, visual field defect, blurred vision[Ref]
Agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, anemia, and pancytopenia have also been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): AnemiaVery rare (less than 0.01%): Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, pancytopeniaFrequency not reported: Leukopenia, lymphopenia, transient decreases in hematocrit, transient decreases in hemoglobin, transient decreases in leukocytesPostmarketing reports: Severe neutropenia, altered prothrombin time (prolonged and reduced) with concomitant warfarin[Ref]
Very rare (less than 0.01%): Anaphylactoid reactions (including angioedema)Frequency not reported: Anaphylaxis, hypersensitivity reactionsPostmarketing reports: Serious hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., angioedema, allergic reactions [including anaphylaxis]), anaphylactic reaction, serum sickness-like reaction[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Renal function test impairment, transient increases in serum urea, transient increases in serum creatinine[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hematuria, transient erectile dysfunction in male patients[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Vasculitis
1. "Product Information. Lamisil (terbinafine)." Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, NJ. 
2. Villars VV, Jones TC "Special features of the clinical use of oral terbinafine in the treatment of fungal diseases." Br J Dermatol 126(suppl (1992): 61-9
3. Shear NH, Gupta AK "Terbinafine for the treatment of pedal onychomycosis: a foot closer to the promised land of cured nails?" Arch Dermatol 131 (1995): 937-42
4. Amichai B, Grunwald MH "Adverse drug reactions of the new oral antifungal agents - terbinafine, fluconazole, and itraconazole." Int J Dermatol 37 (1998): 410-5
5. del Palacio Hernandez A, Lopez Gomez S, Gonzalez Lastra F, Moreno Palancar P, Iglesias Diez L "A comparative double-blind study of terbinafine (Lamisil) and griseofulvin in tinea corporis and tinea cruris." Clin Exp Dermatol 15 (1990): 210-6
6. Ottervanger JP, Stricker BH "Loss of taste and terbinafine." Lancet 340 (1992): 728
7. Beutler M, Hartmann K, Kuhn M, Gartmann J "Taste disorders and terbinafine." BMJ 307 (1993): 26
8. Abecassis S,  Roujeau JC,  Bocquet H, et al. "Severe sialadenitis: a new complication of drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms." J Am Acad Dermatol 51 (2004): 827-30
9. Stricker BHC, Vanriemsdijk MM, Sturkenboom MCJM, Ottervanger JP "Taste loss to terbinafine: a case-control study of potential risk factors." Br J Clin Pharmacol 42 (1996): 313-8
10. Balfour JA, Faulds D "Terbinafine. A review of its pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties, and therapeutic potential in superficial mycoses [published erratum appears in Drugs 1992 May;43(5):699]." Drugs 43 (1992): 259-84
11. Juhlin L "Loss of taste and terbinafine." Lancet 339 (1992): 1483
12. Wilson NJE, Evans S "Severe pustular psoriasis provoked by oral terbinafine." Br J Dermatol 139 (1998): 168
13. Carstens J, Wendelboe P, Sogaard H, Thestrup-Pedersen K "Toxic epidermal necrolysis and erythema multiforme following therapy with terbinafine." Acta Derm Venereol 74 (1994): 391-2
14. Bennett ML, Jorizzo JL, White WL "Generalized pustular eruptions associated with oral terbinafine." Int J Dermatol 38 (1999): 596-600
15. Verros CD,  Rallis E "The role of terbinafine in induction and/or exacerbation of psoriasis." Int J Dermatol 52 (2012): 1155-6
16. Wach F, Stolz W, Hein R, Landthaler M "Severe erythema anulare centrifugum-like psoriatic drug eruption induced by terbinafine." Arch Dermatol 131 (1995): 960-1
17. Bonsmann G, Schiller M, Luger TA, Stander S "Terbinafine-induced subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus." J Am Acad Dermatol 44 (2001): 925-31
18. Condon CA, Downs AMR, Archer CB "Terbinafine-induced acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis." Br J Cancer 138 (1998): 709-10
19. Rzany B, Mockenhaupt M, Gehring W, Schopf E "Stevens-Johnson syndrome after terbinafine therapy." J Am Acad Dermatol 30 (1994): 509
20. Todd P, Halpern S, Munro DD "Oral terbinafine and erythema multiforme." Clin Exp Dermatol 20 (1995): 247-8
21. Nishiwaki F,  Matsumura Y,  Morita N,  Kore-Eda S,  Miyachi Y,  Omoto M "Acrodermatitis continua of Hallopeau due to oral terbinafine." Br J Dermatol 157 (2007): 1073-4
22. Papa CA, Miller OF "Pustular psoriasiform eruption with leukocytosis associated with terbinafine." J Am Acad Dermatol 39 (1998): 115-7
23. Lazaros GA, Papatheodoridis GV, Delladetsima JK, Tassopoulos NC "Terbinafine-induced cholestatic liver disease." J Hepatol 24 (1996): 753-6
24. Fernandes NF, Geller SA, Fong TL "Terbinafine hepatotoxicity: Case report and review of the literature." Am J Gastroenterol 93 (1998): 459-60
25. "Itracanazole, terbinafine possibly linked to liver failure." Am J Health Syst Pharm 58 (2001): 1076
26. Paredes AH,  Lewis JH "Terbinafine-induced acute autoimmune hepatitis in the setting of hepatitis B virus infection." Ann Pharmacother 41 (2007): 880-4
27. Lowe G, Green C, Jennings P "Hepatitis associated with terbinafine treatment." BMJ 306 (1993): 248
28. Gupta AK, DelRosso JQ, Lynde CW, Brown GH, Shear NH "Hepatitis associated with terbinafine therapy: three case reports and a review of the literature." Clin Exp Dermatol 23 (1998): 64-7
29. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
30. Gupta AK, Gonder JR, Shear NH, Dilworth GR "The development of green vision in association with terbinafine therapy." Arch Dermatol 132 (1996): 845-6
31. Adverse Drug Reactions Advisory Committee (ADRAC) and the Adverse Drug Reactions Unit of the TGA "Australian Adverse Drug Reactions Bulletin. Available from: URL: http://www.tga.gov.au/adr/aadrb/aadr0608.htm."   ([2006 Aug]):
32. Gupta AK, Soori GS, DelRosso JQ, Bartos PB, Shear NH "Severe neutropenia associated with oral terbinafine therapy." J Am Acad Dermatol 38 (1998): 765-7
33. Grunwald MH, Amichai B "Thrombocytopenia associated with oral terbinafine." Int J Dermatol 37 (1998): 634
34. Shapiro M, Li LJ, Miller J "Terbinafine-induced neutropenia." Br J Dermatol 140 (1999): 1196-7
35. Kovacs MJ, Alshammari S, Guenther L, Bourcier M "Neutropenia and pancytopenia associated with oral terbinafine." J Am Acad Dermatol 31 (1994): 806
36. Rossetti G,  Livio F,  Roulet E,  Hofer MF "Anaphylactic reaction and unrelated, subsequent, known side effects during therapy with thiethylperazine." Pediatr Allergy Immunol 16 (2005): 453-5
37. Gupta AK, Kopstein JB, Shear NH "Hypersensitivity reaction to terbinafine." J Am Acad Dermatol 36 (1997): 1018-9
38. Beltraminelli HS,  Lerch M,  Arnold A,  Bircher AJ,  Haeusermann P "Acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis induced by the antifungal terbinafine: case report and review of the literature." Br J Dermatol 152 (2005): 780-3
39. Hull PR, Vismer HF "Treatment of cutaneous sporotrichosis with terbinafine." Br J Dermatol 126 Suppl (1992): 51-5
It is possible that some side effects of terbinafine may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Fever


Body aches or pain
chills
cough
diarrhea
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
joint pain
loss of appetite
loss of voice
nasal congestion
nausea
runny nose
shivering
skin rash or itching
sneezing
sore throat
sweating
trouble with sleeping
unusual tiredness or weakness
upper abdominal or stomach pain
vomiting


Dark urine
difficulty with swallowing
pale skin
pale stools
redness, blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
stomach pain
unusual bleeding or bruising
yellow skin or eyes


Black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
bloating
blood in the urine or stools
chest pain
constipation
cough or hoarseness
dizziness
fast heartbeat
feeling of discomfort
flu-like symptoms
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
hair loss
high fever
hives
indigestion
inflammation of the joints
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
light-colored stools
lower back or side pain
muscle aches
painful or difficult urination
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
persistent loss of appetite
pinpoint red spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
red, scaling, or crusted skin
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
sores, welting, or blisters
stomach pain, continuing
swollen glands
swollen lymph glands
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing with exertion
ulcers, sores, or white spots in the mouth
unexplained bleeding or bruising


Stomach pain (mild)


Acid or sour stomach
bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
belching
change of taste or loss of taste
heartburn
toothache


Decreased vision
difficulty with moving
discouragement
feeling sad or empty
irritability
lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
loss of sense of smell
muscle cramps or spasms
muscle stiffness
tiredness
trouble concentrating

