Commonly reported side effects of tesamorelin include: injection site reaction, erythema at injection site, bruising at injection site, irritation at injection site, and pain at injection site. Other side effects include: limb pain, myalgia, peripheral edema, and decreased glucose tolerance.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to tesamorelin: subcutaneous powder for solution
As well as its needed effects, tesamorelin may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking tesamorelin, check with your doctor immediately:
Some tesamorelin side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to tesamorelin: subcutaneous powder for injection
Hypersensitivity side effects have included pruritus, erythema, flushing, urticaria, and other rash.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgia, carpal tunnel syndrome, pain in extremity, myalgia, musculoskeletal pain, musculoskeletal stiffness, joint stiffness, muscle spasms, and joint swelling.[Ref]
Local side effects have included injection site reactions (erythema, pruritus, pain, urticaria, irritation, swelling, and hemorrhage).[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included paresthesia, hypoesthesia and peripheral neuropathy.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, vomiting, dyspepsia, and upper abdominal pain.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects have included hyperglycemia.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included palpitations, hypertension, hot flush and peripheral edema.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects have included depression and insomnia.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included rash, pruritus and night sweats.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Egrifta (tesamorelin)." EMD Serono Inc, Rockland, MA. 
It is possible that some side effects of tesamorelin may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Difficulty with moving
muscle pain or stiffness
pain in the arms or legs
pain in the joints


Blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
burning, numbness, pain, or tingling in all fingers except the smallest finger
chest pain
dizziness
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
headache
nervousness
pounding in the ears
slow or fast heartbeat
swelling of the joints
unsteadiness or awkwardness
weakness in the arms, hands, legs, or feet


Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at injection site
muscle aching or cramping


Acid or sour stomach
belching
bone pain
discouragement
feeling of warmth
feeling sad or empty
heartburn
indigestion
irritability
itching skin
lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
muscle spasms
nausea
night sweats
rash
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
sleeplessness
stiffness of the joints
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
strain in the muscles
sudden sweating
tiredness
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep
upper abdominal or stomach pain
vomiting

