Generic Name: tetanus toxoid
Applies to tetanus toxoid: intramuscular solution, intramuscular suspension
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypotension.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included redness, warmth, edema, induration with or without tenderness as well as urticaria, and rash.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have rarely included an anaphylactic reaction (i.e., hives, swelling of the mouth, difficulty breathing, hypotension, or shock) following administration of products containing tetanus toxoid (the active ingredient contained in Tetanus Toxoid Adsorbed)   Arthus-type hypersensitivity reactions, characterized by severe local reactions (generally starting 2 to 8 hours after injection) may occur, particularly in persons who have received multiple prior boosters.  Deaths have been reported in temporal association with the administration of tetanus toxoid containing vaccines.[Ref]
General side effects have included malaise, transient fever, pain, hypotension, nausea and arthralgia in some patients following an injection.[Ref]
Side effects observed following immunization with vaccines should be reported by healthcare providers to the US Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS).  Reporting forms and information about reporting requirements or completion of the form can be obtained from VAERS through a toll-free number 1-800-822-7967.Healthcare providers also should report these events to the Pharmacovigilance Department, Aventis Pasteur Inc., Discovery Drive, Swiftwater, PA 18370 or call 1-800-822-2463.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included neurological complications including cochlear lesion, brachial plexus neuropathies, paralysis of the radial nerve, paralysis of the recurrent nerve, accommodation paresis, Guillain-Barre syndrome, and EEG disturbances with encephalopathy.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Tetanus Toxoid Adsorbed (tetanus toxoid)." Aventis Pasteur Inc, Swiftwater, PA. 
2. "Product Information. Tetanus Toxoid (tetanus toxoid)." Aventis Pasteur Inc, Swiftwater, PA. 
It is possible that some side effects of Tetanus Toxoid Adsorbed may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
