Common side effects of Thalomid include: asthenia.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, thalidomide (the active ingredient contained in Thalomid) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking thalidomide, check with your doctor immediately:
Some thalidomide side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Nervous system side effects have included somnolence (36.1% to 37.5%), dizziness (4.2% to 19.4%), paresthesia (5.6% to 15.6%), nervousness (2.8% to 9.4%), insomnia (9.4%), agitation (9.4%), peripheral neuropathy (8.3%), vertigo (8.3%), and tremor (4.2%).  Other nervous system side effect have included abnormal thinking, amnesia, causalgia, circumoral paresthesia, confusion, hyperesthesia, neuralgia, migraine, abnormal gait, ataxia, decreased libido, decreased reflexes, dementia, dyskinesia, hypalgesia, hyperkinesia, incoordination, meningitis, neurologic disorder, dysesthesia, syncope, loss of consciousness, stupor, seizures, and neuritis.  A case of encephalopathy has also been reported.
Hematologic side effects have included leukopenia (16.7% to 25%), anemia (5.6% to 12.5%), and lymphadenopathy (5.6% to 12.5%).   Other hematologic side effects have included decreased ESR, eosinophilia, granulocytopenia, leukemia, elevated MCV, pancytopenia, petechiae, purpura, erythroleukemia, lymphopenia, abnormal RBC, thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, febrile neutropenia, changes in prothrombin time, and enlarged spleen.
Immunologic side effects have included fever (19.4% to 21.9%), and infection (6.3% to 8.3%).  Other immunologic side effects have included amyloidosis, AIDS, viral infection, flu syndrome, decreased CD4 count, sepsis, organizing pneumonia, and moniliasis.
Dermatologic side effects have included rash (20.8% to 25.0%), maculopapular rash (4.2% to 18.7%), sweating (12.5%), acne (3.1% to 11.1%), fungal dermatitis (4.2% to 9.4%), pruritus (2.8% to 6.3%), and nail disorder (3.1% to 4.2%).  Other dermatologic side effects have included alopecia, dry skin, eczematous rash, exfoliative dermatitis, ichthyosis, perifollicular thickening, erythema nodosum, skin necrosis, angioedema, benign skin neoplasm, herpes simplex, incomplete Stevens-Johnson syndrome, psoriasis, aphthous stomatitis, skin discoloration, skin disorder, seborrhea, facial edema, cellulitis, erythema multiforme, and urticaria.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea (4.2% to 12.5%), diarrhea (4.2% to 11.1%), oral moniliasis (4.2% to 11.1%), dry mouth (8.3%), flatulence (8.3%), constipation (2.8% to 4.8%), abdominal pain (2.8% to 4.2%), and anorexia (2.8%).  Other abdominal side effects have included colitis, dysphagia, esophagitis, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal disorder, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, gum disorder, parotid gland enlargement, periodontitis, stomatitis, tongue discoloration, appetite increase, taste disturbance, intestinal obstruction, vomiting, abdominal distension, eructation, intestinal perforation, and dyspepsia.
Genitourinary side effects have included hematuria (11.1%), albuminuria (3.1% to 8.3%), and impotence (2.8% to 8.3%).  Other genitourinary side effects have included urinary incontinence, enuresis, orchitis, pyuria, amenorrhea, and urinary frequency.
General side effects have included pain (8.3%), malaise (8.3%), tooth pain (4.25%), and accidental injury (4.2% to 5.6%).  Other general side effects have included weight gain, hernia, chills and fever, and photosensitivity.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included back pain (4.2% to 5.6%), neck pain (4.2%), and neck rigidity (4.2%).  Other musculoskeletal side effects have included arthritis, bone tenderness, hypertonia, joint disorders, myalgia, myasthenia, periosteal disorder, twitching of the limbs, foot drop, upper extremity pain, carpal tunnel syndrome, intermittent shaking, and muscle cramps.
Metabolic side effects have included increased SGOT (2.8% to 12.5%), hyperlipemia (2.% to 9.4%), and peripheral edema (3.1% to 8.3%).  Other metabolic side effects have included bilirubinemia, increased BUN, increased creatinine, hyperkalemia, hypokalemia, hyperuricemia, hypomagnesemia, hypercalcemia, hypocalcemia, avitaminosis, increased lipase, increased alkaline phosphatase, hypercholesterolemia, hypoglycemia, dehydration, hypoproteinemia, electrolyte abnormalities, increased LDH, decreased phosphorus, hyponatremia, tumor lysis syndrome, and increased SGPT.  A case of thalidomide-associated hyperglycemia and diabetes has also been reported.
Cardiovascular side effects have included vasodilation, hypotension, bradycardia, thromboembolism, orthostatic hypotension, hypertension, angina pectoris, congestive heart failure, atrial fibrillation, cerebral ischemia, cerebrovascular accident, heart arrest, Raynaud's syndrome, murmur, myocardial infarct, palpitation, pericarditis, postural hypotension, syncope, tachycardia, thrombosis, sick sinus syndrome, EKG abnormalities, and peripheral vascular disorder.
Some of the cases of bradycardia have required medical intervention.  The clinical significance and underlying etiology of the bradycardia is unknown.
Hepatic side effects have included multiple liver function test abnormalities (9.4%) in patients.  Other hepatic side effects have included enlarged liver, cholangitis, cholestatic jaundice, bile duct obstruction and ascites.  A case of severe hepatotoxicity and a case of fulminant hepatic failure have also been reported.
Respiratory side effects have included pharyngitis (4.2% to 8.3%), sinusitis (3.1% to 8.3%), and rhinitis (4.2%).  Other respiratory side effects have included cough, emphysema, epistaxis, pulmonary embolus, rales, voice alteration, apnea, bronchitis, lung disorder, lung edema, dyspnea, pneumonia, pleural effusion, and upper respiratory tract infection.
Oncologic side effects have included myelogenous leukemia, nodular sclerosing Hodgkin's disease and sarcoma.
Endocrine side effects have included inappropriate ADH, altered hormone levels, hypothyroidism, myxedema, gynecomastia, and diabetes.
Otic side effects have included deafness and tinnitus.  A case of intractable insomnia has also been reported.
Ocular side effects have included dry eyes, diplopia, eye pain, conjunctivitis, eye disorder, lacrimation disorder, retinitis, and amblyopia.
Psychiatric side effects have included mood changes, depression, euphoria, psychosis, and suicide attempts.
Renal side effects have included acute renal failure and oliguria.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included allergic reaction.
It is possible that some side effects of Thalomid may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Anxiety
chest pain
cough
dizziness or lightheadedness
fainting
fast heartbeat
muscle weakness
pain, redness, or swelling in the arm or leg
sudden shortness of breath or troubled breathing
tingling, burning, numbness, or pain in the hands, arms, feet, or legs
Blood in the urine
decreased urination
fever, alone or with chills and sore throat
irregular heartbeat
low blood pressure
skin rash
Black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blistering of the skin
blood in the stools
confusion
convulsions
difficulty with speaking
double vision
inability to move the arms, legs, or facial muscles
inability to speak
itching skin
muscle jerking of the arms and legs
peeling and loosening of the skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
slow speech
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
sudden loss of consciousness
unusual bleeding or bruising
Constipation
diarrhea
drowsiness
nausea
stomach pain
Dry skin
dryness of the mouth
headache
increased appetite
mood changes