 Check with your doctor if any of these most COMMON side effects persist or become bothersome:
Dizziness; excitability; headache; nausea; nervousness or anxiety; trouble sleeping; weakness.
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; itching; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, or tongue); difficulty urinating; fast or irregular heartbeat; hallucinations; seizures; severe dizziness, lightheadedness, or headache; stomach pain; tremor; yellowing of skin or eyes.
Hepatic side effects of acetaminophen have included severe and sometimes fatal dose dependent hepatitis in alcoholic patients.  Hepatotoxicity has been increased during fasting.
Nervous system side effects of dextromethorphan have included drowsiness and dizziness.  Other side effects such as excitation, mental confusion, and opioid like respiratory depression have been rare and occurred at higher dosages.  In some cases of abuse, patients experienced euphoria, hyperactivity, mania, and auditory and visual hallucinations.Nervous system side effects of phenylephrine have included headache, dizziness, nervousness, restlessness, tremor, insomnia, convulsions, and central nervous system depression.
Cardiovascular side effects of phenylephrine have included palpitations, arrhythmias, and cardiovascular collapse with hypotension.
Gastrointestinal side effects of dextromethorphan have included upset stomach.Gastrointestinal side effects of phenylephrine have included nausea.
Hypersensitivity side effects of dextromethorphan have included rare reports of fixed-drug eruptions.
Respiratory side effects of phenylephrine have included respiratory difficulty.
Genitourinary side effects of phenylephrine have included dysuria.
General side effects of phenylephrine have included pallor and weakness.
Psychiatric side effects of phenylephrine have included hallucinations, fear, and anxiety.
Dermatologic side effects associated with acetaminophen includes the risk of rare but potentially fatal serious skin reactions known as Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP).
It is possible that some side effects of Theraflu Daytime Severe Cold & Cough may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
dropsliquid