Generic Name: nedocromil
Applies to nedocromil: inhalation aerosol powder
As well as its needed effects, nedocromil (the active ingredient contained in Tilade) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking nedocromil, check with your doctor immediately:
Some nedocromil side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to nedocromil: inhalation aerosol with adapter
Gastrointestinal side effects have included unpleasant taste which was reported in approximately 13% of patients receiving nedocromil (the active ingredient contained in Tilade) and resulted in drug withdrawal in up to 3%.  Less commonly, nedocromil has caused nausea and vomiting (2% to 4%).[Ref]
Throat irritation may be relieved by drinking water before and after inhalation of nedocromil (the active ingredient contained in Tilade)   Use of a beta-2 agonist prior to nedocromil inhalation may relieve cough and bronchospasm.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included cough and throat irritation in 6% to 7% of patients treated with nedocromil.  Bronchospasm has been induced in 5% of patients.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included headache in up to 6% of patients treated.  Less commonly dizziness has been reported.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included elevations of liver function tests (SGPT) in approximately 3% of patients treated with nedocromil (the active ingredient contained in Tilade) [Ref]
1. Dejong JW, Teengs JP, Postma DS, Vandermark TW, Koeter GH, Demonchy JGR "Nedocromil sodium versus albuterol in the management of allergic asthma." Am J Respir Crit Care Med 149 (1994): 91-7
2. "Product Information. Tilade (nedocromil)." Rhone-Poulenc Rorer, Collegeville, PA. 
3. Gonzalez JP, Brogden RN "Nedocromil sodium. A preliminary review of its pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties, and therapeutic efficacy in the treatment of reversible obstructive airways disease." Drugs 34 (1987): 560-77
4. Rebuck AS, Kesten S, Boulet LP, Cartier A, Cockcroft D, Gruber J, Laberge F, Lee-Chuy E, Keshmiri M, MacDonald GF, et al "A 3-month evaluation of the efficacy of nedocromil sodium in asthma: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of nedocromil sodium conducted by a Canadian multicenter study group." J Allergy Clin Immunol 85 (1990): 612-7
5. Brogden RN, Sorkin EM "Nedocromil sodium. An updated review of its pharmacological properties and therapeutic efficacy in asthma." Drugs 45 (1993): 693-715
6. Foulds RA "An overview of human safety data with nedocromil sodium." J Allergy Clin Immunol 92 (1993): 202-4
7. Parish RC, Miller LJ "Nedocromil sodium." Ann Pharmacother 27 (1993): 599-606
It is possible that some side effects of Tilade may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Abdominal pain
body aches or pain
chills
congestion
cough
dryness or soreness of throat
ear congestion
fever
hoarseness
increased wheezing, tightness in chest, or difficulty in breathing
loss of voice
nasal congestion
noisy breathing
runny nose
shortness of breath
sneezing
stuffy nose
tender, swollen glands in neck
trouble in swallowing
unusual tiredness or weakness
voice changes


Pain, stiffness, or swelling of joints


Headache
nausea or vomiting
sensation of warmth
throat irritation
tremor
unpleasant taste

