As well as its needed effects, insulin glargine (the active ingredient contained in Toujeo) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking insulin glargine, check with your doctor immediately:
Some insulin glargine side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Adverse reactions associated with insulin glargine (the active ingredient contained in Toujeo) include hypoglycemia, allergic reactions, injection site reactions, lipodystrophy, pruritus, rash, edema, and weight gain.
The ORIGIN (Outcome Reduction with Initial Glargine Intervention) trial, an open-labeled, randomized study comparing insulin glargine (the active ingredient contained in Toujeo) to standard care in persons 50 years or older with abnormal glucose levels (impaired fasting glucose and/or impaired glucose tolerance) or early type 2 diabetes mellitus and established cardiovascular (CV) disease or CV risk factors, found over the course of the 6 year study, severe hypoglycemia occurred in 5.7% of patients receiving insulin glargine compared to 1.9% in the standard care group.  The median HbA1c values in the insulin glargine group ranged from 5.9% to 6.4% while the HbA1c values in the standard care group ranged from 6.2% to 6.6%.  The incidence for all hypoglycemia was 58% and 26% in the insulin glargine and standard groups, respectively.  Weight gain has been reported with insulin therapy and has been attributed to the anabolic effects of insulin and the decrease in glucosuria.  In the ORIGIN trial, the median change in body weight from baseline to the last treatment visit was 2.2 kg greater in the insulin glargine group (+1.4 kg vs -0.8 kg).
Very common (10% or more): HypoglycemiaFrequency not reported: Weight gain
Injection site reactions include redness, pain, itching, hives, swelling, or inflammation.  In some cases, these reactions may be caused by other factors, such as irritants in skin cleansing agents.  In clinical studies, there was a higher incidence of treatment-emergent injection site pain in insulin-glargine treated patients compared to NPH-treated patients (2.7% vs 0.7%).
Common (1% to 10%): Injection site reactions, injection site pain
Hypersensitivity side effects have included both local and systemic reactions.  Anaphylaxis has been reported.  Local reactions have presented as erythema, local edema, and pruritus at the injection site.  Most minor reactions to insulin at the injection site resolve in a few days to a few weeks.
Rare (less than 0.1%): Allergic reactions
Very common (10% or more): Hypertension (up to 19.6%) Common (1% to 10%): Peripheral edema
Insulin may cause sodium retention and edema, especially as metabolic control is improving.  The ORIGIN (Outcome Reduction with Initial Glargine Intervention) trial, an open-labeled, randomized study in persons 50 years or older with abnormal glucose levels (impaired fasting glucose and/or impaired glucose tolerance) or early type 2 diabetes mellitus and established cardiovascular (CV) disease or CV risk factors, found the time to first occurrence of a major adverse cardiovascular event (MACE) and the incidence of MACE to be similar between insulin glargine and standard care (n=12.537).
Postmarketing reports indicate children and adolescents may experience more skin reactions such as rash and urticaria, than adults.
Common (1% to 10%): LipohypertrophyUncommon (0.1% to 1%): LipoatrophyPostmarketing reports: Rash urticaria
Frequency not reported: Cancer occurrence
The ORIGIN (Outcome Reduction with Initial Glargine Intervention) trial, an open-labeled, randomized study in persons 50 years or older with abnormal glucose levels (impaired fasting glucose and/or impaired glucose tolerance) or early type 2 diabetes mellitus and established cardiovascular (CV) disease or CV risk factors, comparing insulin glargine to standard care found the overall incidence of all types of cancer combined or death from cancers was similar between treatment groups (n=12,537).  In July 2009, The US FDA reported on an ongoing safety review evaluating a possible increased risk of cancer.  In February 2011, the FDA in an updated communication reported the evidence was inconclusive and it is not possible to conclude that the use of this insulin increases the risk of cancer.
Frequency not reported: Antibody formation
As with all therapeutic proteins, the potential for immunogenicity exits.  The detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay and may be influenced by assay methodology, sample handling and collection, concomitant medications, and underlying disease.  The presence of insulin antibodies may increase or decrease the efficacy of insulin and may require dose adjustment.
Rare (less than 0.1%): Visual impairment, retinopathy
Rapid improvement in glucose control has been associated with a transitory, reversible ophthalmologic refraction disorder and worsening of diabetic retinopathy.  However, long-term glycemic control decreases the risk.
Common (1% to 10%): Gastroenteritis
Rare (less than 0.1%): Myalgia
Common (1% to 10%): HeadacheVery rare (less than 0.01%): DysgeusiaFrequency not reported: Peripheral neuropathy
Rapid improvement in glucose control has been associated with a transitory, reversible acute painful peripheral neuropathy.  However, long-term glycemic control decreases the risk.
Very common (10% or more): Upper respiratory infection (up to 22.4%)	Common (1% to 10%): Pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis
It is possible that some side effects of Toujeo may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Anxiety
behavior change similar to being drunk
blurred vision
chills
cold sweats
confusion
convulsions (seizures)
cool, pale skin
difficulty with thinking
dizziness or lightheadedness
drowsiness
excessive hunger
fast heartbeat
headache
nausea
nervousness
nightmares
restless sleep
shakiness
slurred speech
tingling in the hands, feet, lips, or tongue
unusual tiredness or weakness
Fast pulse
skin rash or itching over the entire body
sweating
trouble breathing
Bloating or swelling of the face, hands, lower legs, or feet
cough
decreased urine
difficulty with swallowing
dry mouth
hives
increased thirst
irregular heartbeat
muscle pain or cramps
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rapid weight gain
vomiting
Fever
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
Depression of the skin at the injection site
itching, pain, redness, or swelling at the injection site
thickening of the skin at injection site