Applies to tranexamic acid: oral syrup, oral tablet
Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, tranexamic acid may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking tranexamic acid, check with your doctor immediately:
Some tranexamic acid side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to tranexamic acid: compounding powder, intravenous solution, oral tablet
Gastrointestinal side effects have frequently included nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.  Abdominal pain has also been reported.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included giddiness, dizziness, headache, tension headache, and migraine.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included thromboembolic events (e.g., deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, cerebral thrombosis, acute renal cortical necrosis, and central retinal artery and vein obstruction) and anemia.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included allergic skin reactions, anaphylactic shock and anaphylactoid reactions.[Ref]
A case of severe allergic reaction to tranexamic acid was reported involving a subject on her fourth cycle of treatment who experienced dyspnea, tightening of her throat, and facial flushing that required emergency medical treatment.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have rarely included disturbances of color vision and retinal artery occlusion.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included back pain, musculoskeletal pain, muscle cramps and spasms, myalgia, and arthralgia including joint stiffness and swelling.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included nasal and sinus symptoms including nasal, respiratory tract and sinus congestion, sinusitis, acute sinusitis, sinus headache, and allergic sinusitis and sinus pain.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypotension when intravenous administration exceeded 1 mL per minute.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included ureteral obstruction due to clot formation in patients with upper urinary tract bleeding.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. LYSTEDA (tranexamic acid)." Xanodyne Pharmaceuticals Inc, Newport, KY. 
2. "Product Information. Cyklokapron (tranexamic acid)." Pharmacia and Upjohn, Kalamazoo, MI. 
It is possible that some side effects of tranexamic acid may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
intravenous solution

Pale skin
trouble breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness


Anxiety
change in vision
chest pain or tightness
confusion
cough
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness or lightheadedness
fainting
fast heartbeat
numbness of the hands
pain, redness, or swelling in the arm or leg
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
skin rash, hives, or itching


Abdominal or stomach pain, discomfort, or tenderness
chills or fever
difficulty with moving
headache, severe and throbbing
joint or back pain
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pains or stiffness
stuffy or runny nose


Diarrhea
nausea
vomiting

