Generic Name: factor XIII
Applies to factor XIII: intravenous powder for solution
As well as its needed effects, factor XIII (the active ingredient contained in Tretten) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 

If any of the following side effects occur while taking factor XIII, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some factor XIII side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to factor XIII: intravenous powder for injection
Hypersensitivity side effects have included allergy, rash, pruritus, and erythema, chills/rise in temperature, arthralgia, headache, elevated thrombin antithrombin levels, and an increase in hepatic enzymes.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included factor XIII (the active ingredient contained in Tretten) inhibitor formation.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included thrombosis and embolism.[Ref]
General side effects have included flu-like syndrome and pyrexia.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included abdominal pain, diarrhea and vomiting.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included contusion, joint injury, limb injury, road traffic accident, and arthralgia.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included upper respiratory tract infection and epistaxis.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included headache and head injury.[Ref]
Immunologic side effects have included allergic/anaphylactic reaction (including cutaneous reactions, alteration in blood pressure, nausea, dyspnea, fever, and chills).[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Corifact (factor XIII)." CSL Behring, King of Prussia, PA. 
It is possible that some side effects of Tretten may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Bloody nose
bruise
collection of blood under the skin
deep, dark purple bruise
fever
itching, pain, redness, or swelling


Chest pain
cough
dizziness or fainting
hives
pain in the chest, groin, or legs, especially the calves
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red, scaly, swollen, or peeling areas of the skin
severe, sudden headache
shortness of breath
tenderness, pain, swelling, warmth, skin discoloration, and prominent superficial veins over the affected area
unusual tiredness or weakness


Difficulty with moving
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
joint pain
muscle aches and pains

