Applies to triamcinolone: injection suspension
As well as its needed effects, triamcinolone may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 

If any of the following side effects occur while taking triamcinolone, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some triamcinolone side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to triamcinolone: compounding powder, inhalation aerosol, inhalation aerosol with adapter, injectable kit, injectable suspension, oral tablet
Cardiovascular side effects have included fluid retention, sodium retention, congestive heart failure, potassium loss, hypokalemic alkalosis, and hypertension.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, calcinosis (following intra-articular or intra-lesional use), Charcot-like arthropathy, loss of muscle mass, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, pathologic fracture of long bones, postinjection flare (following intra-articular use), steroid myopathy, tendon rupture, and vertebral compression fractures.  Postmarketing experience has included very rare reports of bone mineral density loss and osteoporosis, especially with prolonged use, which may lead to an increased risk of fractures.[Ref]
Decreases in bone density of the total hip and the trochanter have been reported with the use of inhaled triamcinolone acetonide in a study (n=109) of premenopausal women with asthma.  The yearly change in bone density at the total hip and the trochanter showed a greater decline as the number of puffs per day of the inhaled glucocorticoid increased.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included peptic ulcer with potential perforation and hemorrhage, perforation of small and large bowel, pancreatitis, abdominal distention, and ulcerative esophagitis.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included impaired wound healing, thin, fragile skin, petechiae and ecchymoses, facial erythema, increased sweating, and suppressed reactions to skin tests.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included convulsions, increased intracranial pressure with papilledema, vertigo, and headache.[Ref]
Endocrine side effects have included development of cushingoid state, menstrual irregularities, suppression of growth in children, manifestations of latent diabetes, increased requirements for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics, decreased carbohydrate tolerance, and secondary adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have included posterior subcapsular cataracts, increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and exophthalmos.  Retinal and choroidal occlusion as a complication after posterior sub-Tenon triamcinolone injection has been reported.[Ref]
Metabolic side effects have included negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included anaphylactoid reactions, anaphylaxis, and angioedema.
Other side effects have included abnormal fat deposits, decreased resistance to infection, hiccups, increased or decreased motility and number of spermatozoa, moon face, malaise, and weight gain.
Local side effects have included injection site infections following non-sterile administration.
1. "Product Information. Aristospan (triamcinolone)" Fujisawa, Deerfield, IL. 
2. Israel E,  Banerjee TR,  Fitzmaurice GM,  Kotlov TV,  LaHive K,  LeBoff MS "Effects of inhaled glucocorticoids on bone density in premenopausal women." N Engl J Med 345 (2001): 941-7
3. Burge S "Should inhaled corticosteroids be used in the long term treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease?" Drugs 61 (2001): 1535-44
4. Moshfeghi DM,  Lowder CY,  Roth DB,  Kaiser PK "Retinal and choroidal vascular occlusion after posterior sub-tenon triamcinolone injection." Am J Ophthalmol 134 (2002): 132-4
It is possible that some side effects of triamcinolone may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Aggression
agitation
anxiety
blurred vision
decrease in the amount of urine
dizziness
fast, slow, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
headache
irritability
mental depression
mood changes
nervousness
noisy, rattling breathing
numbness or tingling in the arms or legs
pounding in the ears
shortness of breath
swelling of the fingers, hands, feet, or lower legs
trouble thinking, speaking, or walking
troubled breathing at rest
weight gain


Abdominal cramping and/or burning (severe)
abdominal pain
backache
bloody, black, or tarry stools
cough or hoarseness
darkening of skin
decreased vision
diarrhea
dry mouth
eye pain
eye tearing
facial hair growth in females
fainting
fatigue
fever or chills
flushed, dry skin
fractures
fruit-like breath odor
full or round face, neck, or trunk
heartburn and/or indigestion (severe and continuous)
increased hunger
increased thirst
increased urination
loss of appetite
loss of sexual desire or ability
lower back or side pain
menstrual irregularities
muscle pain or tenderness
muscle wasting or weakness
nausea
pain in back, ribs, arms, or legs
painful or difficult urination
skin rash
sleeplessness
sweating
trouble healing
trouble sleeping
unexplained weight loss
unusual tiredness or weakness
vision changes
vomiting
vomiting of material that looks like coffee grounds


Blemishes on the skin
bruising
dry, scaly skin
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
full or bloated feeling
increased appetite
increased hair growth on the face, forehead, back, arms, and legs
large, flat, blue, or purplish patches in the skin
pimples
pitting or depression of the skin at the injection site
reddish purple lines on the arms, face, legs, trunk, or groin
redness of the skin
redness, swelling, tenderness, or pain at the injection site
sensation of spinning
small, red, or purple spots on the skin
thin, fragile, or shiny skin
thinning of the scalp hair

