Generic Name: vortioxetine
Common side effects of Trintellix include: diarrhea, male sexual disorder, and nausea. Other side effects include: constipation, dizziness, and vomiting.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to vortioxetine: oral tablet
As well as its needed effects, vortioxetine (the active ingredient contained in Trintellix) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking vortioxetine, check with your doctor immediately:
Some vortioxetine side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to vortioxetine: oral tablet
The most commonly reported side effects were difficulties in sexual desire, sexual performance, sexual satisfaction, and nausea.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Difficulties in sexual desire, sexual performance, sexual satisfaction (up to 34%)Common (1% to 10%) Abnormal dreamsRare(less than 0.1%): Mania, hypomania[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Angioedema[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): DizzinessFrequency not reported: Serotonin syndrome, dysgeusia, vertigo[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Nausea (up to 32%), diarrhea (up to 10%)Common (1% to 10%): Dry mouth, constipation, vomiting, flatulenceFrequency not reported: Dyspepsia[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Discontinuation symptoms such as headache, muscle tension, mood swings, sudden outbursts of anger, dizziness, runny nose[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Pruritus[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Flushing[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Brintellix (vortioxetine)." Takeda Pharmaceuticals America, Lincolnshire, IL. 
It is possible that some side effects of Trintellix may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Agitation
blood in the stool or urine
confusion
convulsions
decreased urine output
diarrhea
dizziness
fast or irregular heartbeat
fever
headache
increased thirst
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
muscle pain or cramps
nausea or vomiting
nose bleeds
overactive reflexes
poor coordination
red or purple spots on the skin
restlessness
shivering
shortness of breath
sweating
swelling of the face, ankles, or hands
talking or acting with excitement you cannot control
trembling or shaking
twitching
unusual bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting blood


Difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
dry mouth


Bloated or full feeling
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
itching skin
passing gas
unusual dreams


Acid or sour stomach
belching
blurred vision
change in taste
dizziness or lightheadedness
eye pain
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
feeling of warmth
heartburn
indigestion
loss of taste
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
sensation of spinning
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain

