Common side effects of Trulicity include: diarrhea, frequent bowel movements, nausea, and retching. Other side effects include: abdominal distress, abdominal pain, abdominal tenderness, asthenia, dyspepsia, fatigue, gastrointestinal pain, lower abdominal pain, upper abdominal pain, decreased appetite, and malaise.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, dulaglutide (the active ingredient contained in Trulicity) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking dulaglutide, check with your doctor immediately:
Some dulaglutide side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most common adverse reactions included nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and decreased appetite.
Very common (10% or more): Nausea (up to 21.1%), diarrhea (up to 13.7%), vomiting (up to 11.5%)Common (1% to 10%): Abdominal pain, dyspepsia, constipation, flatulence, abdominal distention, gastroesophageal reflux disease, eructation, lipase and/or pancreatic amylase increases from baseline (up to 20%) Frequency not reported: Pancreatitis
During clinical trials, a greater number of pancreatitis related adverse reactions were reported in patients exposed to this drug versus non-incretin comparators (12 cases vs 3 cases).  Analyses of adjudicated events revealed 5 cases of confirmed pancreatitis in dulaglutide-exposed patients compared with 1 case in the non-incretin comparator group.  Gastrointestinal events occurred more frequently with the higher dose.  Cases were graded as mild, moderate, or severe in 58% and 48%, 35% and 43%, and 7% and 11%, of patients receiving the 0.75 mg dose and the 1.5 mg dose, respectively.  The severity of events was graded by clinical trial investigators.
One case of Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma (MTC) has been reported in a patient treated with this drug.  Prior to receiving treatment, this patient had calcitonin levels approximately 8 times the upper limit of normal.
Very rare (less than 0.01%): Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma
Very common (10% or more): Hypoglycemia (up to 85% when combined with prandial insulin)Common (1% to 10%): Decreased appetite
Hypoglycemia occurred more frequently when this drug was used in combination with a sulfonylurea or insulin.  In combination with prandial insulin, hypoglycemia occurred in 85% and 80% of patients receiving 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg; severe hypoglycemia in 2.4% and 3.4% of patients, respectively.  In combination with a sulfonylurea, symptomatic hypoglycemia occurred in 39% and 40%.  As add-on therapy to metformin or metformin plus pioglitazone, symptomatic hypoglycemia occurred in up to 5.6% of patients, with no reports of severe hypoglycemia.
During clinical trials, a mean increase in heart rate of 2 to 4 beats per minute was observed.  Sinus tachycardia was reported in 2.8% and 5.6% of patients receiving 0.75 mg and 1.5 mg of dulaglutide (the active ingredient contained in Trulicity) compared with 3% in placebo.  Persistent sinus tachycardia defined as occurring at more than 2 visits was reported in 0.4%, 1.6%, and 0.2% of patients receiving dulaglutide 0.75 mg, 1.5 mg, or placebo.  Episodes of sinus tachycardia associated with an increase of 15 or more beats per minute from baseline occurred in 1.3%, 2.2%, and 0.7% of patients, respectively.
Common (1% to 10%): First degree AV block, sinus tachycardia, PR prolongation on ECGFrequency not reported: Increased heart rate
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Systemic hypersensitivity including severe urticaria, systemic rash, facial edema, lip swelling
In clinical studies 1.6% (n=64) of patients developed anti-drug antibodies (ADAs).  Half of the patients had dulaglutide-neutralizing antibodies and half developed antibodies against native GLP-1.
Common (1% to 10%): Anti-drug antibodies
Common (1% to 10%): Injection site reactions
Common (1% to 10%): Fatigue
It is possible that some side effects of Trulicity may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Agitation
change in urination
chills
cold sweats
confusion
cool, pale skin
depression
difficulty with breathing or swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
fever
hives
hoarseness
hostility
increased hunger
irritability
lethargy
loss of appetite
lump in the neck
muscle twitching
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
rapid weight gain
reddening of the skin, especially around the ears
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
swelling of the eyes or inside of the nose
swelling of the face, ankles, or hands
trouble breathing
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
yellow eyes or skin
Diarrhea
Acid or sour stomach
belching
decreased appetite
general feeling of discomfort or illness
heartburn or indigestion
lack or loss of strength
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site