Generic Name: homatropine / hydrocodone
Applies to homatropine / hydrocodone: syrup, tablets
 Check with your doctor if any of these most COMMON side effects persist or become bothersome:
Blurred vision; constipation; dizziness; drowsiness; dry mouth, throat, or nose; excitement; nausea; stomach upset; thickening or mucus in nose or throat.
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; itching; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, or tongue); difficulty urinating; flushing; rapid or pounding heartbeat; redness of face; severe drowsiness or dizziness.


Applies to homatropine / hydrocodone: oral syrup, oral tablet
One study has suggested that the respiratory depression caused by hydrocodone may be of benefit in the treatment of dyspnea related to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and restrictive lung disease.  However, the potential for the precipitation of respiratory insufficiency makes such use of hydrocodone hazardous and such use should be undertaken, if at all, only with extreme caution.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects of hydrocodone have included mental depression, drowsiness, dizziness, lightheadedness, respiratory depression (which is sometimes fatal), stupor, delirium, somnolence, agitation, and dysphoria.[Ref]
Other side effects of hydrocodone have included withdrawal symptoms, such as agitation, restlessness, anxiety, insomnia, tremor, abdominal cramps, blurred vision, vomiting and sweating, after either abrupt cessation or fast tapering of narcotic analgesics.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects of hydrocodone have included nausea, vomiting, constipation, and dry mouth.[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects of hydrocodone have included ureteral spasm, spasm of vesicle sphincters, and urinary retention.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects of hydrocodone have included rash.[Ref]
1. Sackner MA "Effects of hydrocodone bitartrate on breathing pattern of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and restrictive lung disease." Mt Sinai J Med 51 (1984): 222-6
2. "Product Information. Hycodan (homatropine-hydrocodone)" Endo Laboratories LLC, Chadds Ford, PA. 
3. Fricke J, Halladay SC, Bynum L, Francisco CA "Pain relief after dental impaction surgery using ketorolac, hydrocodone plus acetaminophen, or placebo." Clin Ther 15 (1993): 500-9
4. Morrison AB "Toxicity and abuse of hydrocodone bitartrate." Can Med Assoc J 120 (1979): 1338
It is possible that some side effects of Tussigon may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
