As well as its needed effects, chlorpheniramine / hydrocodone may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Some chlorpheniramine / hydrocodone side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Nervous system side effects have included sedation, drowsiness, mental clouding, lethargy, impairment of mental performance, anxiety, fear, dysphoria, euphoria, dizziness, psychic dependence, and mood changes.
Dermatologic side effects have included rash and pruritus.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, vomiting, and constipation.
Genitourinary side effects have included ureteral spasm, spasm of versicle sphincters, and urinary retention.
Respiratory side effects have included respiratory depression, dryness of the pharynx, and occasional tightness of the chest.
The long-acting hydrocodone-containing cough product (marketed as Tussionex Pennkinetic Extended-Release Suspension) may produce dose-related respiratory depression by acting directly on brain stem respiratory centers.  Its use of been associated with fatal respiratory depression.
General side effects have included impairment of physical performance.
It is possible that some side effects of Tussionex Pennkinetic may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
oral liquid, oral solution
Decrease in frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
difficult, painful, or troubled breathing
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
irregular, fast or slow, or shallow breathing
pale or blue lips, fingernails, or skin
tightness in the chest
Drowsiness
false or unusual sense of well-being
fear or nervousness
itching skin or rash
nausea
sleepiness
unusual drowsiness, dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness
vomiting