Generic Name: lapatinib
Applies to lapatinib: oral tablet
As well as its needed effects, lapatinib (the active ingredient contained in Tykerb) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking lapatinib, check with your doctor immediately:
Some lapatinib side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to lapatinib: oral tablet
All clinical trial data were from trials of lapatinib (the active ingredient contained in Tykerb) in combination with capecitabine.[Ref]
To report suspected adverse reactions, contact GlaxoSmithKline at 1-888-825-5249 or the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088 or www.fda.gov/medwatch.[Ref]
Diarrhea was the most common adverse reaction resulting in discontinuation of study medication.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects including diarrhea (65%), nausea (44%), vomiting (26%), stomatitis (14%), and dyspepsia (11%) have been reported.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included laboratory abnormalities in hemoglobin (56%), neutrophils (22%), and platelets (18%).[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects including palmar plantar erythrodysesthesia (53%) (also called hand-foot syndrome or acral erythema), rash (28%), dry skin (10%), and nail disorders including paronychia have been reported.[Ref]
Hepatotoxicity may be severe and deaths have been reported.  Causality of the deaths is uncertain.  The hepatotoxicity may occur days to several months after initiation of treatment.  Liver function tests (transaminases, bilirubin, and alkaline phosphatase) should be monitored before initiation of treatment, every 4 to 6 weeks during treatment, and as clinically indicated.  If changes in liver function are severe, therapy with lapatinib (the active ingredient contained in Tykerb) should be discontinued and patients should not be retreated with lapatinib.  If lapatinib is to be administered to patients with severe preexisting hepatic impairment, dose reduction should be considered.  In patients who develop severe hepatotoxicity while on therapy, lapatinib should be discontinued and should not be retreated with lapatinib.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included laboratory abnormalities in AST (49%), total bilirubin (45%), and ALT (37%).[Ref]
Due to potential cardiac toxicity with HER2 (ErbB2) inhibitors, left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was monitored in clinical trials at approximately eight-week intervals.  LVEF decreases were defined as signs or symptoms of deterioration in left ventricular cardiac function that are grade 3 (NCI CTCAE), or a 20% decrease in left ventricular cardiac ejection fraction relative to baseline which is below the institution's lower limit of normal.  Among 198 patients who received lapatinib (the active ingredient contained in Tykerb) capecitabine combination treatment, three experienced Grade 2 and one had Grade 3 LVEF adverse reactions (NCI CTC 3.0).The QT prolongation potential of lapatinib was assessed as part of an uncontrolled, open-label dose escalation study in advanced cancer patients.  Eighty-one patients received daily doses of lapatinib ranging from 175 mg/day to 1800 mg/day.  Serial ECGs were collected on day 1 and day 14 to evaluate the effect of lapatinib on QT intervals.  Thirteen of the 81 subjects were found to have either QTcF (corrected QT by the Friedericia method) greater than 480 msec or an increase in QTcF greater than 60 msec by automated machine-read evaluation of ECG.  Analysis of the data suggested a relationship between lapatinib concentration and the QTc interval.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects including decreases in left ventricular ejection fraction and QT prolongation have been reported.[Ref]
Other side effects including mucosal inflammation (15%), pain in the extremity (12%), dyspnea (12%), back pain (11%), and insomnia (10%) have been reported.[Ref]
Oncologic side effects including genotoxicity have been reported.  An impurity in the drug product was genotoxic when tested alone in both in vitro and in vivo assays.[Ref]
It is recommended that patients be monitored for pulmonary symptoms indicative of interstitial lung disease or pneumonitis.  Lapatinib (the active ingredient contained in Tykerb) should be discontinued in patients who experience pulmonary symptoms indicative of interstitial lung disease/pneumonitis which are greater than or equal to grade 3 (NCI CTCAE).[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have been reported including interstitial lung disease and pneumonitis in monotherapy or in combination with other chemotherapies.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects including anaphylaxis have been reported.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Tykerb (lapatinib)." GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC. 
It is possible that some side effects of Tykerb may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Difficult or labored breathing
fainting
fast or irregular heartbeat
severe diarrhea
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness


Abdominal or stomach pain or tenderness
clay colored stools
dark urine
decreased appetite
fever
headache
itching or skin rash
loss of appetite
nausea and vomiting
swelling of the feet or lower legs
yellow eyes or skin


Blistering, peeling, loosening of the skin
chest pain
chills
cough
diarrhea
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
general feeling of discomfort or illness
hives
joint or muscle pain
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
thickening of bronchial secretions


Acid or sour stomach
back pain
belching
cracked lips
diarrhea (mild)
dry skin
heartburn
indigestion
pain in the arms or legs
redness, swelling, or painful skin
scaling of the skin on the hands and feet
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips, tongue, or the inside of the mouth
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
tingling of the hands and feet
trouble sleeping


Loosening of the fingernails
redness or soreness around the fingernails

