As well as its needed effects, acetaminophen / oxycodone may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking acetaminophen / oxycodone, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking acetaminophen / oxycodone, get emergency help immediately:
Some acetaminophen / oxycodone side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Psychosis has also been reported during withdrawal from oxycodone.
In general, acetaminophen is well tolerated when administered in therapeutic doses.  Oxycodone may be habit forming.  Withdrawal symptoms after either abrupt cessation or fast tapering may occur and include agitation, restlessness, anxiety, insomnia, tremor, abdominal cramps, piloerection, blurred vision, vomiting, and sweating.
Dermatologic side effects including general erythematous skin rashes associated with acetaminophen have been reported, but are rare.  Cases of bullous erythema and purpura fulminans associated with acetaminophen have been reported.  Acetaminophen has been associated with a risk of rare but potentially fatal serious skin reactions know as Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP).  Oxycodone may produce pruritus.
Gastrointestinal side effects with acetaminophen are rare except in alcoholics and after overdose.  Cases of acute pancreatitis have been reported rarely.  Nausea, vomiting, and constipation occur commonly with oxycodone.
One study has suggested that acetaminophen may precipitate acute biliary pain and cholestasis.  The mechanism of this effect may be related to inhibition of prostaglandin and alterations in the regulation of the sphincter of Oddi.
Hematologic side effects including rare cases of thrombocytopenia associated with acetaminophen have been reported.  Acute thrombocytopenia has also been reported as having been caused by sensitivity to acetaminophen glucuronide, the major metabolite of acetaminophen.  Methemoglobinemia with resulting cyanosis has also been observed in the setting of acute overdose.
Hepatic side effects have included hepatic dysfunction which may occur after overdose.  In this setting, severe and sometimes fatal dose-dependent hepatitis has been reported.  Several cases of hepatotoxicity from chronic acetaminophen therapy at therapeutic doses have also been reported despite a lack of risk factors for toxicity
Hepatotoxicity may be increased by thyroid drugs, zidovudine, fasting, or alcohol use.Alcoholic patients may develop hepatotoxicity after even modest doses of acetaminophen.  In healthy patients, approximately 15 grams of acetaminophen is necessary to deplete liver glutathione stores by 70% in a 70 kg person.  Hepatotoxicity has been reported following smaller doses.  Glutathione concentrations may be repleted by the antidote n-acetylcysteine.  One case report has suggested that hypothermia may also be beneficial in decreasing liver damage during overdose.In a recent retrospective study of 306 patients admitted for acetaminophen overdose, 6.9% had severe liver injury but all recovered.  None of the 306 patients died.A 19-year-old female developed hepatotoxicity, reactive plasmacytosis and agranulocytosis followed by a leukemoid reaction after acute acetaminophen toxicity.
Hypersensitivity side effects including anaphylaxis and fixed drug eruptions have been reported rarely in association with acetaminophen use.
Severe adverse effects of oxycodone, such as respiratory depression, can be treated with the opioid antagonist, naloxone.  (The usual adult dose of naloxone is 1 to 2 mg every 5 minutes as necessary to a maximum of 10 mg.  The dose is usually administered intravenously, but in an emergency may be given intramuscularly, subcutaneously, or sublingually.)
Nervous system side effects with oxycodone containing products are common and include drowsiness, sedation, dizziness, and lightheadedness.  Respiratory depression has also been reported.
Psychiatric side effects of oxycodone reported include paranoia, psychosis, and hallucinations.
Acetaminophen related acute tubular necrosis usually occurs in conjunction with liver failure, but has been observed as an isolated finding in rare cases.  A possible increase in the risk of renal cell carcinoma has been associated with chronic acetaminophen use.A recent case-control study of patients with end-stage renal disease suggested that long term consumption of acetaminophen may significantly increase the risk of end-stage renal disease particularly in patients taking more than two tablets per day.
Renal side effects of acetaminophen are rare and include acute tubular necrosis and interstitial nephritis.  Additional adverse renal effects are most often observed after overdose, after chronic abuse (often with multiple analgesics), or in association with acetaminophen-related hepatotoxicity.
Respiratory side effects have included a case of eosinophilic pneumonia which has been associated with acetaminophen.
Two cases of hypotension have been reported following the administration of acetaminophen.  Both patients experienced significant decreases in blood pressure.  One of the two patients required pressor agents to maintain adequate mean arterial pressures.  Neither episode was associated with symptoms of anaphylaxis.  Neither patient was rechallenged after resolution of the initial episode.
Cardiovascular side effects have included at least two cases of hypotension which have been reported following the administration of acetaminophen.
Metabolic side effects including metabolic acidosis have been reported following a massive overdose of acetaminophen.
In the case of metabolic acidosis, causality is uncertain as more than one drug was ingested.  The case of metabolic acidosis followed the ingestion of 75 grams of acetaminophen, 1.95 grams of aspirin, and a small amount of a liquid household cleaner.  The patient also had a history of seizures which the authors reported may have contributed to an increased lactate level indicative of metabolic acidosis.
It is possible that some side effects of Tylox may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal or stomach pain
black, tarry stools
chills
dark urine
dizziness
fever
headache
itching
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
nausea
rash
unpleasant breath odor
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin
Cough or hoarseness
fever with or without chills
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
unusual bleeding or bruising
Back, leg, or stomach pains
bleeding gums
bloating
blood in the urine or stools
blue lips and fingernails
blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chest pain or discomfort
clay-colored stools
cloudy urine
clumsiness
confusion
constipation
coughing that sometimes produces a pink frothy sputum
decreased awareness or responsiveness
decreased frequency or amount of urine
difficult or labored breathing
difficult or painful urination
difficult, fast, noisy breathing, sometimes with wheezing
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
drowsiness
dry mouth
extremely shallow or slow breathing
fainting
fast or deep breathing
fast, slow, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat
feeling of warmth
general body swelling
increased sweating
increased thirst
indigestion
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
lightheadedness
muscle aches
muscle tremors
muscle weakness
nervousness
noisy breathing
nosebleeds
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
pounding in the ears
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rapid, deep or shallow breathing
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
restlessness
seizures
severe constipation
severe sleepiness
severe vomiting
skin blisters
skin rash, hives, or welts
sleepiness
sore throat
stomach cramps
sunken eyes
sweating
swelling of the face, fingers, lower legs, or ankles
thirst
tightness in the chest
tiredness
vomiting
weakness or heaviness of the legs
weight gain
Bluish lips or skin
change in consciousness
cold, clammy skin
extreme sleepiness
general feeling of discomfort or illness
loss of consciousness
low blood pressure or pulse
slow breathing
unconsciousness
Relaxed and calm feeling
Acid or sour stomach
agitation
bad, unusual or unpleasant (after) taste
belching
change in taste
cold sweats
constricted, pinpoint, or small pupils (black part of the eye)
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
cool, pale skin
depression
diarrhea
difficulty with moving
disturbed color perception
double vision
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
false or unusual sense of well-being
flushed, dry skin
fruit-like breath odor
full feeling
general feeling of discomfort or illness
halos around lights
hearing loss
heartburn
increased hunger
increased urination
indigestion
joint pain
lack or loss of strength
muscle cramps or spasms
muscle pain or stiffness
night blindness
nightmares
overbright appearance of lights
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
seizures
shakiness
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
slurred speech
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
sweating
swollen joints
thirst
trouble sleeping
tunnel vision
unexplained weight loss
unusual drowsiness, dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness