Common side effects of Typhim Vi include: fever, pain, induration at injection site, and erythema. Other side effects include: myalgia, and nausea.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, a vaccine may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.  It is very important that you tell your doctor about any side effects that occur after a dose of typhoid vaccine, even though the side effect may have gone away without treatment. Some types of side effects may mean that you should not receive any more doses of typhoid vaccine.
Check with your doctor immediately if any of the following side effects occur while taking typhoid vaccine, inactivated (the active ingredient contained in Typhim Vi) 
Some typhoid vaccine, inactivated side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most common adverse events were injection site reactions.
Very common (10% or more): Tenderness (98%), pain (56%), induration (18%), soreness (13%), erythema (11%)Common (1% to 10%): SwellingVery rare (less than 0.01%): Edema
Local reactions usually resolved within 48 hours of vaccination.
Very common (10% or more): Malaise (37%), fatigue (38%), feverish (subjective) (11.1%)Common (1% to 10%): Fever of 100F or greater, decreased activity, elevated oral temperature, general achesPostmarketing reports: Asthenia, flu-like episode
Very common (10% or more): Headache (27%)Postmarketing reports: Syncope without convulsions, loss of consciousness, tremor, vasovagal syncope in response to injection
Postmarketing reports: Anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions including shock, serum sickness, allergic-type reactions such as pruritus, rash, urticaria, angioedema, difficulty breathing, or hypotension
Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, diarrhea, vomitingPostmarketing reports: Abdominal pain
Common (1% to 10%): ItchingVery rare (less than 0.01%): Urticaria, rash
Common (1% to 10%): MyalgiaPostmarketing reports: Arthralgia, cervical pain, polyarthritis
Postmarketing reports: Lymphadenopathy, neutropenia
Postmarketing reports: Bilateral retinitis
Postmarketing reports: Glomerulonephritis
Postmarketing reports: Asthma
It is possible that some side effects of Typhim Vi may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Difficulty in breathing or swallowing
 hives
itching, especially of feet or hands
reddening of skin, especially around ears
 swelling of eyes, face, or inside of nose
unusual tiredness or weakness (sudden and severe)
Fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
muscle pain
pain, redness, or swelling at place of injection 