Generic Name: levothyroxine
Applies to levothyroxine: oral capsule liquid filled, oral tablet
Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, levothyroxine (the active ingredient contained in Unithroid) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking levothyroxine, check with your doctor immediately:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking levothyroxine, get emergency help immediately:

Some levothyroxine side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to levothyroxine: compounding powder, injectable powder for injection, intravenous powder for injection, oral capsule, oral solution, oral tablet
Cardiac function was evaluated in twenty patients requiring TSH suppression for either thyroid goiter or following thyroidectomy and radioactive iodine therapy for thyroid cancer and in twenty age- and sex-matched controls.  TSH suppression was associated with an increased incidence of premature ventricular beats, an increased left ventricular mass index, and enhanced left ventricular systolic function.  The clinical significance of these changes remains to be determined.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Palpitations, tachycardia, hypertension, arrhythmias, increased pulse and blood pressure, heart failure, angina, myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Changes in symptom presentation for diabetes and adrenal cortical insufficiency[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Headache, hyperactivity, insomnia, seizures[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hair loss, flushing, urticaria, pruritus, skin rash, angioedema[Ref]
A study evaluated the effect of long-term thyroid hormone therapy on bone mineral density in 196 women (mean age, 74.4 years) compared to a control group comprised of 795 women (mean age, 72.1 years).  The mean daily thyroxine dose was 1.99 mcg/kg (range, 0.3 to 6.6 mcg/kg) with a mean duration of therapy of 20.4 years (range, less than 1 to 68 years).  Women taking daily doses of 1.6 mcg/kg or more had significantly lower bone mineral density levels at the ultradistal radius, midshaft radius, hip, and lumbar spine compared to controls.  However, estrogen use appeared to negate the adverse effects of thyroid hormone on bone mineral density.Higher rates of femur fractures have been found in males (p=0.008) prescribed long-term thyroid hormone therapy as compared to controls in a case-control analysis of 23,183 patients, from the United Kingdom General Practice Research Database, prescribed thyroid hormone.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Tremors, muscle weakness, muscle cramps, increased risk of osteoporosis[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal cramps[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Menstrual irregularities, impaired fertility[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Serum sickness[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Increased appetite, weight loss[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Autoimmune disorders (e.g., chronic autoimmune thyroiditis)[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Fatigue, heat intolerance, fever, pseudotumor cerebri and slipped capital femoral epiphysis have been reported in children[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Nervousness, anxiety, irritability, emotional lability[Ref]
1. Pharmaceutical Society of Australia "APPGuide online. Australian prescription products guide online. Available from: URL: http://www.appco.com.au/appguide/default.asp."   ([2006]):
2. Petersen K, Bengtason C, Lapidus L, et al "Morbidity, mortality, and quality of life for patients treated with levothyroxine." Arch Intern Med 150 (1990): 2077-81
3. Sheppard MC,  Holder R,  Franklyn JA "Levothyroxine treatment and occurrence of fracture of the hip." Arch Intern Med 162 (2002): 338-43
4. "Product Information. Synthroid (levothyroxine)." Abbott Pharmaceutical, Abbott Park, IL. 
5. Leese GP, Jung RT, Guthrie C, Waugh N, Browning MC "Morbidity in patients on L-thyroxine: a comparison of those with a normal TSH to those with a suppressed TSH." Clin Endocrinol (Oxf) 37 (1992): 500-3
6. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
It is possible that some side effects of Unithroid may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
injection powder for solution

Chest pain or discomfort
decreased urine output
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dilated neck veins
extreme fatigue
fainting
fast, slow, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
fever
heat intolerance
hives or welts
increased blood pressure
increased pulse
irregular breathing
irritability
menstrual changes
nausea
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
shortness of breath
skin itching, rash, or redness
sweating
swelling of the eyes, face, lips, throat, or tongue
tightness in the chest
tremors
troubled breathing


Blurred or double vision
dizziness
eye pain
lack or slowing of normal growth in children
limp or walk favoring one leg
pain in the hip or knee
seizures
severe headache


Change in consciousness
cold, clammy skin
confusion
disorientation
fast or weak pulse
lightheadedness
loss of consciousness
sudden headache
sudden loss of coordination
sudden slurring of speech


Abdominal or stomach cramps
change in appetite
crying
diarrhea
false or unusual sense of well-being
fear
feeling not well or unhappy
feeling of discomfort
feeling of warmth
feeling things are not real
feelings of suspicion and distrust
hair loss
headache
increased appetite
mental depression
muscle weakness
nervousness
quick to react or overreact emotionally
rapidly changing moods
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
restlessness
trouble getting pregnant
trouble sitting still
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
weight gain
weight loss

