Generic Name: bethanechol
Applies to bethanechol: elixir, solution, tablet
As well as its needed effects, bethanechol (the active ingredient contained in Urecholine) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking bethanechol, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some bethanechol side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to bethanechol: compounding powder, oral tablet, subcutaneous solution
Adverse reactions occur more commonly following subcutaneous administration of bethanechol (the active ingredient contained in Urecholine) than with oral administration.Cholinergic overstimulation with symptoms of circulatory collapse, fall in blood pressure, abdominal cramps, bloody diarrhea, shock, or sudden cardiac arrest has been reported rarely with subcutaneous administration of bethanechol.  Atropine sulfate should be available to treat symptoms of toxicity when bethanechol is administered subcutaneously.  The adult dose of atropine is 0.6 mg administered subcutaneously every 2 hours, according to patient response.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included decreased blood pressure with reflex tachycardia and vasomotor response.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included headache and seizure.  Hypothermia has been reported.  An acute dystonic reaction associated with the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux during bethanechol (the active ingredient contained in Urecholine) therapy in an infant has been reported.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included abdominal cramps, colicky pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, salivation, and borborygmi.[Ref]
Ocular side effects have included lacrimation and miosis.[Ref]
Renal side effects have included urinary urgency.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included aggravation of asthma and bronchial constriction.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included warmth/heat, flushing, and sweating.  A case of miliaria crystallina associated with the use of bethanechol (the active ingredient contained in Urecholine) in a diabetic patient with autonomic bladder neuropathy has been reported.[Ref]
1. Caraco Y, Arnon R, Raz I "Bethanechol-induced cholinergic toxicity in diabetic neuropathy [letter." DICP 24 (1990): 327-8
2. "Product Information. Urecholine (bethanechol)." Merck & Co, Inc, West Point, PA. 
3. Guerra MF, Ives TJ "Bethanechol and hypothermia [letter]." Ann Intern Med 99 (1983): 279-80
4. Berard EJ, Boucand MH, Depassio J, Fyon JP "Effects of bethanechol and adreno-blockers on thermoregulation in spinal cord injury." Paraplegia 27 (1989): 46-50
5. Shafrir Y, Levy Y, Beharab A, Nitzam M, Steinherz R "Acute dystonic reaction to bethanechol--a direct acetylcholine receptor agonist." Dev Med Child Neurol 28 (1986): 646-8
6. Rochmis PG, Koplon BS "Iatrogenic miliaria crystallina due to bethanechol." Arch Dermatol 95 (1967): 499-500
It is possible that some side effects of Urecholine may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Shortness of breath, wheezing, or tightness in chest


Belching
 blurred vision or change in near or distance vision
 diarrhea
dizziness or lightheadedness
feeling faint
frequent urge to urinate 
headache
increased watering of mouth or sweating
nausea or vomiting
redness or flushing of skin or feeling of warmth
seizures
sleeplessness, nervousness, or jitters
stomach discomfort or pain

