As well as its needed effects, flavoxate (the active ingredient contained in Urispas) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Some flavoxate side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Flavoxate (the active ingredient contained in Urispas) is generally well tolerated and an estimated frequency of particular side effects is not available.
Cardiovascular side effects have included tachycardia and palpitation.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, vomiting, and dry mouth.
Ocular side effects have included increased ocular tension, blurred vision, and altered accommodation.
Nervous system side effects have included vertigo, headache, mental confusion, drowsiness, and nervousness.  These effects may be exaggerated in elderly patients.
Renal side effects have included dysuria, and obstructive uropathies of the lower urinary tract.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included urticaria and other unspecified dermatoses, eosinophilia, and elevated temperature.
Hematologic side effects have been reported rarely.  A case of reversible leukopenia has been reported.
It is possible that some side effects of Urispas may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Confusion
eye pain
 skin rash or hives
sore throat and fever
Clumsiness or unsteadiness
dizziness (severe)
drowsiness (severe)
 fever
flushing or redness of face
hallucinations (seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there)
shortness of breath or troubled breathing 
unusual excitement, nervousness, restlessness, or irritability
Drowsiness
dryness of mouth and throat 
Blurred vision
constipation
difficult urination
difficulty concentrating 
dizziness
fast heartbeat 
headache
increased sensitivity of eyes to light
increased sweating
nausea or vomiting
nervousness
stomach pain