As well as its needed effects, methoxsalen (the active ingredient contained in Uvadex) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Some methoxsalen side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Treatment with this medicine usually causes a slight reddening of your skin 24 to 48 hours after the treatment. This is an expected effect and is no cause for concern. However, check with your doctor right away if your skin becomes sore and red or blistered.
There is an increased risk of developing skin cancer after use of methoxsalen. You should check your body regularly and show your doctor any skin sores that do not heal, new skin growths, and skin growths that have changed in the way they look or feel.
Premature aging of the skin may occur as a result of prolonged methoxsalen therapy. This effect is permanent and is similar to what happens when a person sunbathes for long periods of time.
Dermatologic side effects have included mild to serious skin burns, premature aging of the skin, pruritus, inflammation, erythema, rash (nonspecific), edema, extension of psoriasis, cutaneous tenderness, hypopigmentation, keratosis, folliculitis, dermal vessel damage, longer duration of epidermal and dermal abnormalities, miliaria, urticaria, vesiculation formation, and bullae formation.  Postmarketing dermatologic side effects have included rash.
Cardiovascular side effects are mostly associated with methoxsalen (the active ingredient contained in Uvadex) sterile solution and have included arrhythmia and serious (nonspecific) cardiovascular adverse experiences.  Hypotension and dizziness have been associated with the sterile solution and the oral administration of methoxsalen.
Immunologic side effects associated with the sterile solution have included infections (nonspecific) and hickman catheter infections.  Immunologic side effect with oral administration of methoxsalen (the active ingredient contained in Uvadex) has been herpes simplex.
Oncologic side effects have included cutaneous squamous cell cancers, malignant melanoma, and basal cell carcinoma.
Psychiatric side effects have included depression.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included unspecified gastrointestinal disturbances.  Postmarketing gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea and dysgeusia.
General side effects have included malaise and headache.  Postmarketing general side effects have included pyrexia.
Ocular side effects have included cataracts.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included postmarketing reports of allergic reaction.
It is possible that some side effects of Uvadex may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
injection injectable, injection solution
Blistering and peeling of skin
reddened, sore skin
swelling (especially of feet or lower legs)
Itching of skin
nausea
Dizziness
headache
 mental depression
nervousness
 trouble in sleeping