Generic Name: aliskiren / valsartan
Applies to aliskiren / valsartan: tablets
 Check with your doctor if any of these most COMMON side effects persist or become bothersome:
Diarrhea; dizziness; mild flu-like symptoms; runny nose; sore throat; tiredness.
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; itching; difficulty breathing or swallowing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, throat, or tongue; unusual hoarseness); burning, numbness, or tingling; change in the amount of urine produced; chest pain; fainting; frequent or painful urination; irregular heartbeat; muscle pain, weakness, or cramps; red, swollen, blistered, or peeling skin; shortness of breath; signs of infection (eg, fever, chills, persistent sore throat); sudden, unexplained weight gain; swelling of the hands, ankles, or feet; symptoms of liver problems (eg, dark urine, loss of appetite, pale stools, severe or persistent stomach pain, yellowing of the eyes or skin); symptoms of low blood pressure (eg, fainting, light-headedness, severe dizziness).


Applies to aliskiren / valsartan: oral tablet
Genitourinary side effects have included urinary tract infection (1.4%).  Genitourinary side effects reported for the aliskiren component have included elevated uric acid (0.4%), gout (0.2%), and renal stones (0.2%).  Genitourinary side effects reported for the valsartan component have included impotence.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included fatigue (2.6%) and vertigo (1.1%).  Nervous system side effects reported for the aliskiren component have included headache, dizziness, fatigue, cough, and tonic-clonic seizures in two patients, one of which had a history of seizures and the other had no history given.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea (1.4%).  Gastrointestinal side effects reported for the aliskiren component have included diarrhea which increased with increasing dosage and was higher in elderly women, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, and gastroesophageal reflux.[Ref]
Immunologic side effects have included nasopharyngitis (2.6%) and upper respiratory tract infection (1.1%).  Immunologic side effects reported for the aliskiren component have included nasopharyngitis and upper respiratory tract infection.  There have been postmarketing reports of angioedema requiring airway management and hospitalization associated with aliskiren.[Ref]
Ocular side effects reported for the aliskiren component have included periorbital edema without respiratory symptoms.[Ref]
General side effects reported for the aliskiren component have included angioedema (0.06%), and edema involving the face, hands, or whole body (0.4%), and cough (1.1%).  General side effects reported for the valsartan component have included cough (2.6%), and angioedema.[Ref]
Local side effects reported for the aliskiren component have included rash (1%).[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects reported for the aliskiren component have included back pain.  Musculoskeletal side effects reported for the valsartan component have included asthenia and muscle cramps.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects reported for the valsartan component have included paresthesia.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects reported for the valsartan component have included sinusitis and pharyngitis.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included small mean decreases from baseline in red blood cell (RBC) count, hemoglobin, and hematocrit in both monotherapy and combination therapy.Postmarketing hematologic side effects have included increased blood creatinine.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included elevations in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine (less than 1%).[Ref]
There have been postmarketing reports of peripheral edema associated with aliskiren.
Postmarketing reports have included severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including Stevens Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis.
1. "Product Information. Diovan (valsartan)." Novartis Pharmaceuticals, East Hanover, NJ. 
2. "Product Information. Tekturna (aliskiren)." Novartis Pharmaceuticals, East Hanover, NJ. 
3. "Product Information. Valturna (aliskiren-valsartan)." Novartis Pharmaceuticals, East Hanover, NJ. 
It is possible that some side effects of Valturna may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
