As well as its needed effects, gadofosveset trisodium (the active ingredient contained in Vasovist) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Some gadofosveset trisodium side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Hypersensitivity side effects have included anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid reactions.
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus.
Local side effects have included injection site bruising, burning sensation, and venipuncture site bruise.
Nervous system side effects have included headache, paresthesia, and dizziness (excluding vertigo).
Cardiovascular side effects have included vasodilatation and hypertension.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea and dysgeusia.
General side effects have included feeling cold.
It is possible that some side effects of Vasovist may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Cough
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
hives
itching
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
shortness of breath
skin rash
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
wheezing
Blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
feeling faint, dizzy, or lightheaded
feeling of warmth or heat
flushing or redness of the skin, especially on the face and neck
headache
nervousness
pounding in the ears
slow or fast heartbeat
sweating
Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site
change in taste
feeling cold
loss of taste
nausea