Generic Name: cephradine
Applies to cephradine: oral capsule, oral powder for reconstitution
Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported in patients receiving cephradine (the active ingredient contained in Velosef) both orally and intravenously.  Diarrhea generally starts 1 to 16 days after starting cephradine therapy.  If the diarrhea is unresponsive to discontinuation of the drug and/or standard therapy, a diagnosis of pseudomembranous colitis should be considered.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea, and are among the most common side effects associated with cephradine.  Several cases of pseudomembranous colitis associated with the use of cephradine have been reported.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity reactions have included rash, urticaria, pruritus, and joint pain.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included transient and mild eosinophilia, neutropenia and leukopenia.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included transient elevations of SGOT, SGPT, and bilirubin.  Hepatocellular damage has not  been reported.[Ref]
Renal side effects associated with some cephalosporins have included interstitial nephritis.  (Reversible fever, azotemia, pyuria, and eosinophilia are the hallmarks of cephalosporin-induced interstitial nephritis.)[Ref]
Genitourinary side effects have included vaginal yeast infections.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included dizziness.[Ref]
Other side effects have included chest tightness.[Ref]
1. Cannon SR, Dyson PH, Sanderson PJ "Pseudomembranous colitis associated with antibiotic prophylaxis in orthopaedic surgery." J Bone Joint Surg Br 70-B (1988): 600-2
2. Sankarankutty M, McGeorge D, Galasko CS "Pseudomembranous colitis following cephradine prophylaxis." Postgrad Med J 58 (1982): 726-8
3. "Product Information. Velosef (cephradine)." Apothecon Inc, Plainsboro, NJ. 
4. Roberts AP, Hughes AW "Complications with antibiotics used prophylactically in joint replacement surgery." Int Orthop 8 (1985): 299-301
5. Klinger D, Radford P, Collin J "Pneumoperitoneum without faecal peritonitis in a patient with pseudomembranous colitis." Br Med J 288 (1984): 1271-2
6. Kalb RE, Grossman ME "Pustular eruption following administration of cephradine." Cutis 38 (1986): 58-60
7. Filipe P, Almeida RSLS, Rodrigo FG "Occupational allergic contact dermatitis from cephalosporins." Contact Dermatitis 34 (1996): 226
8. Lawson A, McArdle T, Ghosh S "Cephradine-associated immune neutrophenia." N Engl J Med 312 (1985): 651
It is possible that some side effects of Velosef may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
