Generic Name: iloprost
Common side effects of Ventavis include: trismus, increased cough, vasodilatation, and flushing. Other side effects include: glossalgia, and insomnia.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to iloprost: inhalation solution
As well as its needed effects, iloprost (the active ingredient contained in Ventavis) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking iloprost, check with your doctor immediately:
Some iloprost side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to iloprost: inhalation solution
Cardiovascular side effects have included congestive heart failure, chest pain, supraventricular tachycardia, peripheral edema, vasodilation (flushing), hypotension, palpitations and syncope.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea and vomiting.  Postmarketing experience has included diarrhea.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included increased GGT (gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase) and alkaline phosphatase levels.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included muscle cramps, back pain, tongue pain and trismus.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included headache, dizziness and insomnia.[Ref]
Renal side effects have included kidney failure.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included hemoptysis, pneumonia, dyspnea and increased cough.  Postmarketing experience has included cases of bronchospasm and wheezing, particularly in susceptible patients with hyperreactive airways.[Ref]
General side effects have included flu syndrome.  Postmarketing reports have included mouth and tongue irritation and dysgeusia.[Ref]
Other side effects have included cases of epistaxis and gingival bleeding which have been reported within one month of starting iloprost (the active ingredient contained in Ventavis) treatment.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included postmarketing reports of hypersensitivity and rash.
Dermatologic side effects have included postmarketing reports of rash.
Hematologic side effects have included postmarketing reports of thrombocytopenia.
1. "Product Information. Ventavis (iloprost)." CoTherix Inc, South San Francisco, CA. 
It is possible that some side effects of Ventavis may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Black, tarry stools
chest pain
cough
difficult or labored breathing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
extreme fatigue
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
fever
hives or rash
irregular breathing
itching
noisy breathing
pinpoint red spots on the skin
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, fingers, feet, or lower legs
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing or swallowing
unusual bleeding or bruising


Back pain
chills
cough increased
coughing or spitting up blood
difficulty opening the mouth
feeling of warmth
headache
lockjaw
nausea
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
sweating
trouble sleeping


Change in taste
mouth irritation
tongue irritation or pain


Nosebleeds
stuffy nose

