Generic Name: desonide topical
Applies to desonide topical: topical application cream, topical application foam, topical application gel/jelly, topical application lotion, topical application ointment
As well as its needed effects, desonide topical (the active ingredient contained in Verdeso) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking desonide topical, check with your doctor immediately:
Some desonide topical side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to desonide topical: compounding powder, topical cream, topical foam, topical gel, topical kit, topical lotion, topical ointment
The most commonly reported side effects were headache, insomnia, impetigo, skin infection, and rash.[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Allergic reaction including facial edema[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Impetigo, skin infection, rashFrequency not reported: Folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, maceration of the skin, secondary infection, skin atrophy, striae, miliariaPostmarketing reports: Pruritus, skin disorder[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Burning, itching, irritation, dryness[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Flu syndrome aggravated[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Headache, insomnia[Ref]
Frequency not reported: Hyperglycemia, glucosuria, latent diabetes mellitus[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Tridesilon (desonide topical)." Bayer, West Haven, CT. 
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
3. "Product Information. Desowen (desonide topical)." Galderma Laboratories Inc, Fort Worth, TX. 
It is possible that some side effects of Verdeso may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Blistering, burning, crusting, dryness, or flaking of the skin
burning, itching, redness, skin rash, swelling, or soreness at the application site
flushing or redness of the skin
irritation
itching, scaling, severe redness, soreness, or swelling of the skin
peeling of the skin
raised, dark red, wart-like spots on the skin, especially when used on the face
stinging and burning
unusually warm skin


Redness and scaling around the mouth
thinning of the skin with easy bruising, especially when used on the face or where the skin folds together (e.g., between the fingers)


Body aches or pain
chills
cough
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
fever
headache
loss of voice
nasal congestion
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness


Cold flu-like symptoms
congestion
cough
hoarseness
irritability
noisy breathing
shortness of breath
tender, swollen glands in the neck
tightness in the chest
trouble with swallowing
voice changes
wheezing


Acne or pimples
burning and itching of the skin with pinhead-sized red blisters
burning, itching, and pain in hairy areas, or pus at the root of the hair
lightening of normal skin color
lightening of treated areas of dark skin
reddish purple lines on the arms, face, legs, trunk, or groin

