Common side effects of Vimizim include: anaphylaxis, abdominal pain, fever, hypersensitivity reaction, nausea, and vomiting. Other side effects include: cyanosis, chest discomfort, constriction of the pharynx, cough, dyspnea, gastrointestinal symptoms, hypotension, retching, skin rash, urticaria, erythema, and flushing.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, elosulfase alfa (the active ingredient contained in Vimizim) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking elosulfase alfa, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some elosulfase alfa side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
All patients tested positive at least once during the trial for neutralizing antibodies capable of inhibiting the drug from binding to the mannose-6-phosphate receptor; this receptor binding is needed for drug intake into cells.
Very common (10% or more): Development of anti-drug antibodies (100%), tested positive for neutralizing antibodies (100%)
Very common (10% or more): Pyrexia (33%), chills (10.3%), fatigue (10.3%)
Very common (10% or more): Vomiting (31%), nausea (24%), abdominal pain (21%)
Very common (10% or more): Headache (26%)
Very common (10% or more): Hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylaxis; 18.7%)Common (1% to 10%): Anaphylaxis
It is possible that some side effects of Vimizim may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Chills
cough
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
fever
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
skin rash, hives, or itching
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
Abdominal or stomach pain
headache
vomiting