Generic Name: barium sulfate
Applies to barium sulfate: cream, enema, kit, liquid, paste, powder for suspension, suspension, tablet
As well as its needed effects, barium sulfate (the active ingredient contained in Volumen) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 

If any of the following side effects occur while taking barium sulfate, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some barium sulfate side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to barium sulfate: compounding powder, oral capsule, oral cream, oral paste, oral powder for reconstitution, oral suspension, oral tablet, oral and rectal powder for reconstitution, oral and rectal suspension, rectal powder for reconstitution, rectal suspension
General side effects including severe reactions (approximately 1 in 1,000,000) and fatalities (approximately 1 in 10,000,000) have been reported.[Ref]
Other side effects caused by procedural complications have been rare.  Procedural complications have included aspiration pneumonitis, barium impaction, granuloma formation, intravasation, embolization and peritonitis following intestinal perforation, vasovagal and syncopal episodes, and fatalities.[Ref]
It is of the utmost importance to be completely prepared to treat any EKG changes.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects including EKG changes have been reported following or during barium enema procedures.[Ref]
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal cramping accompanying the use of barium sulfate (the active ingredient contained in Volumen) formulations have been infrequent and usually mild.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Readi-Cat 2 (barium sulfate)." E-Z-EM Inc, Lake Success, NY. 
2. "Product Information. E-Z-Cat (barium sulfate)." E-Z-EM Inc, Lake Success, NY. 
It is possible that some side effects of Volumen may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Bloating
constipation (severe, continuing)
cramping (severe)
nausea or vomiting
stomach pain
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing


Anxiety
blood in the stools
blood in the urine
blurred vision
bruising
chest pain
confusion
cough
coughing or vomiting blood
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fainting
fast heartbeat
hives or welts, itching, or skin rash
noisy breathing
persistent bleeding or oozing from puncture sites, mouth, or nose
redness of the skin
sudden shortness of breath or troubled breathing
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness


Constipation or diarrhea
cramping

