Commonly reported side effects of vorinostat include: anemia, diarrhea, nausea, thrombocytopenia, and vomiting. Other side effects include: pulmonary embolism.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, vorinostat may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking vorinostat, check with your doctor immediately:
Some vorinostat side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
General side effects including fatigue (52.3%), decreased weight (20.9%), chills (16.3%), dizziness (15.1%), and pyrexia (10.5%) have been reported.  A case of syncope has also been reported.
Gastrointesinal side effects including diarrhea (52.3%), nausea (40.7%), dysgeusia (27.9%), anorexia (24.4%), dry mouth (16.3%), vomiting (15.1%), constipation (15.1%), and decreased appetite (14%) have been reported.  Cases of cholecystitis and gastrointestinal hemorrhage have also been reported.
Hematologic side effects including thrombocytopenia (25.6%), increased blood creatinine (16.3%), and anemia (up to 14.0%) have been reported.
Musculoskeletal side effects including muscle spasms (19.8%) have been reported.  A case of spinal cord injury has also been reported.
Dermatologic side effects including alopecia (18.6%) and pruritis (11.6%) have been reported.  A case of exfoliative dermatitis has also been reported.
Cardiovascular side effects including peripheral edema (12.8%) have been reported.  Cases of deep vein thrombosis, myocardial infarction, and ischemic stroke have also been reported.
Nervous system side effects including headache (11.6%) have been reported.
Respiratory side effects including upper respiratory infection (10.5%), cough (10.5%), and pulmonary embolism (4.7%) have been reported.  A case of lobar pneumonia has also been reported.
Oncologic side effects including squamous cell carcinoma (3.5%) have been reported.  A case of T-cell lymphoma has also been reported.
Other side effects have been reported including a case of a death from unknown causes.  Cases of enterococcal infection, infection, sepsis, and streptococcal bacteremia have also been reported.
It is possible that some side effects of vorinostat may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Anxiety
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
blood in the urine or stools
body aches or pain
chest pain
chills
confusion
convulsions
cough
decreased urine
diarrhea
dizziness or lightheadedness
dry mouth
ear congestion
fainting
fast heartbeat
fever
headache
increased thirst
irregular heartbeat
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
loss of voice
lower back or side pain
mood changes
muscle pain or cramps
nasal congestion
nausea or vomiting
no blood pressure
no breathing
no pulse
numbness or tingling in the face, arms, or legs
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
pain, redness, or swelling in the arm or leg
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
rapid weight gain
runny nose
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
sudden shortness of breath or troubled breathing
swollen glands
trouble speaking, thinking, or walking
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual drowsiness, dullness, or feeling of sluggishness
unusual tiredness or weakness
Persistent non-healing sore
pink growth
reddish patch or irritated area
shiny bump
white, yellow, or waxy scar-like area
Chest discomfort
general feeling of illness
hoarseness
indigestion
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
rapid, shallow breathing
severe nausea or vomiting
sneezing
stomach pain
sweating
tightness in the chest
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
wheezing
yellow skin and eyes
Change in taste
cracks in the skin
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
hair loss or thinning of the hair
itching skin
lack or loss of strength
loss of heat from the body
loss of taste
muscle spasm
red, swollen skin
scaly skin