Common side effects of Vraylar include: oculogyric crisis, trismus, akathisia, basal ganglia disease, bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, constipation, drowsiness, dyskinesia, dystonia, extrapyramidal reaction, hypersomnia, hypertonia, hypokinesia, muscle rigidity, nausea, sedation, tardive dyskinesia, torticollis, tremor, vomiting, weight gain, and drooling. Other side effects include: asthenia, blurred vision, dizziness, dyspepsia, fatigue, hypertension, increased blood pressure, increased creatine phosphokinase, and restlessness.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, cariprazine (the active ingredient contained in Vraylar) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
Some cariprazine side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most frequently reported adverse effects were extrapyramidal symptoms, akathisia, dyspepsia, vomiting, somnolence, and restlessness.
Very common (10% or more): Extrapyramidal symptoms (29%), akathisia (21%), headache (18%)Common (1% to 10%): Dizziness, somnolence, dystonia, ParkinsonismRare (less than 0.1%): Ischemic stroke
During 6 week schizophrenia placebo controlled trials, 17% of patients reported extrapyramidal symptoms, excluding akathisia and restlessness in the cariprazine group.  This led to study discontinuation in 0.3% of patients.  Akathisia occurred in 11% of patients, leading to study discontinuation of 0.5%.  In 3 week bipolar mania placebo controlled trials, 28% of cariprazine treated patients experienced extrapyramidal symptoms, excluding akathisia and restlessness.  This led to study discontinuation in 1% of patients.  Akathisia occurred in 20% of patients, leading to study discontinuation of 2%.
Hyperglycemia/Diabetes Mellitus: In long-term, open label studies in patients with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder, 4% of patients with normal baseline hemoglobin A1c developed elevated levels (HbA1c 6.5% or higher).  In short-term trials, the number of patients with shifts from normal fasting glucose (less than 100 mg/dL) to high (greater than 126 mg/dL) and borderline (100 to less than 126 mg/dL) levels were similar to placebo-treated patients.Dyslipidemia: In the 3 week placebo controlled bipolar mania and 6 week placebo controlled schizophrenia trials, the shifts in fasting total cholesterol, LDL, HDL, and triglycerides were similar in treatment and placebo groups.Weight gain: In the 6 week placebo controlled trial of patients with schizophrenia, a 7% weight increase or greater was observed in 8% of the patients receiving 1.5 mg to 3 mg of drug daily (n=512), 8% of patients receiving 4.5 mg to 6 mg daily (n=570), and 17% in the 9 mg to 12 mg once daily group (n=203).  During a long term, uncontrolled trial in patients with schizophrenia, the mean change from baseline weight at 48 weeks was 2.5 kg.
Common (1% to 10%): Decreased appetite, weight gain, increase in blood creatine phosphokinase, hyperglycemiaInfrequent: Hyponatremia, diabetes mellitusFrequency not reported: Dyslipidemia
In 3 placebo controlled trials, during a three week period of treating bipolar mania (n=1065), there was no clinically significant difference between cariprazine (the active ingredient contained in Vraylar) and placebo treated patients regarding changes from baseline to endpoint supine blood pressure parameters.  There was however, an increase in supine diastolic blood pressure in the 9 to 12 mg orally once a day cariprazine treated patients.
Common (1% to 10%): Tachycardia, hypertensionUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Orthostatic hypotension
Common (1% to 10%): RashInfrequent: Hyperhidrosis
Very Common (10% or more): Nausea (11%) Common (1% to 10%): Constipation, vomiting, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dry mouth, toothacheInfrequent: Gastroesophageal reflux disease, gastritisFrequency not reported: Dysphagia
Very common (10% or more): Insomnia (13%)Common (1% to 10%): Restlessness, agitation, anxietyRare (less than 0.1%): Completed suicideInfrequent: Suicide attempts, suicidal ideation
Frequency not reported: Leukopenia, neutropenia, agranulocytosis
Transaminase elevations 3 times the upper limit of normal or greater occurred in 1% to 2% of patients in the cariprazine (the active ingredient contained in Vraylar) group during 6 week schizophrenia trials; the incidence increased with dose.  Elevations occurred in 2% to 4% of patients during 3 week bipolar mania trials.
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Increase in hepatic enzymesRare (less than 0.1%): Hepatitis
Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infectionInfrequent: Pollakiuria
Frequency not reported: Rash, pruritus, urticaria, swollen lips/tongue, face and pharyngeal edema, swelling of the face
Common (1% to 10%): Back pain, arthralgia, pain in extremities, stiffnessRare (less than 0.1%): Rhabdomyolysis
Common (1% to 10%): Cough, oropharyngeal painUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Nasopharyngitis
Common (1% to 10%): Blurred visionUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Cataracts
In long term uncontrolled schizophrenia (48 week) and bipolar mania (16 week) trials, cataracts occurred in 0.1% and 0.2% of participants respectively.
Common (1% to 10%): Fatigue, pyrexia
It is possible that some side effects of Vraylar may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Blurred vision
chills
dizziness
drooling
fever
headache
inability to move the eyes
inability to sit still
increased blinking or spasms of the eyelid
loss of balance control
muscle trembling, jerking, or stiffness
need to keep moving
nervousness
pounding in the ears
restlessness
shuffling walk
slow or fast heartbeat
sticking out of the tongue
stiffness of the limbs
trouble with breathing, speaking, or swallowing
twisting movements of the body
uncontrolled movements, especially of the face, neck, arms, or legs
unusual facial expressions
Bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
difficult, burning, or painful urination
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
frequent urge to urinate
lower back or side pain
muscle aches
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
unusual tiredness or weakness
Confusion
convulsions
double vision
drooling
high fever
increased sweating
lip smacking or puckering
muscle trembling, jerking, or stiffness
puffing of the cheeks
rapid or worm-like movements of the tongue
severe muscle stiffness
uncontrolled chewing movements
unusually pale skin
Abdominal or stomach pain
diarrhea
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
nausea
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
trouble sleeping
Acid or sour stomach
anxiety
back pain
belching
cough
decreased appetite
difficulty with moving
dry mouth
heartburn
indigestion
irritability
muscle pain or stiffness
pain in the arms, joints, or legs
rash
shaking
stomach discomfort or upset
weight gain