Common side effects of Welchol include: constipation. Other side effects include: dyspepsia.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, colesevelam (the active ingredient contained in Welchol) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking colesevelam, check with your doctor immediately:
Some colesevelam side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most frequently reported side effects were constipation, dyspepsia, and nausea.
Very common (10% or more): Constipation (up to 11%), flatulenceCommon (1% to 10%): Dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, abnormal stools, abdominal distensionUncommon (0.1% to 1%): DysphagiaVery rare (less than 0.01%): PancreatitisFrequency not reported: Intestinal obstructionPostmarketing reports: Bowel obstruction, esophageal obstruction, fecal impaction, exacerbation of hemorrhoids
Common (1% to 10%): Hypertriglyceridemia, hypoglycemia
Common (1% to 10%): Hypertension, myocardial infarction, aortic stenosis, bradycardia
Common (1% to 10%): Pharyngitis, rhinitis, nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection
Common (1% to 10%): Accidental injury, asthenia, flu syndrome/influenza, fatigue, creatine phosphokinase increasedUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Serum transaminases increased
Common (1% to 10%): Myalgia, back pain
Common (1% to 10%): Headache
In clinical trials of type 2 diabetes, patient who received this drug as an add on to a sulfonylurea discontinued the trial due to body rash and mouth blistering that occurred on the first day of therapy.
Frequency not reported: Hypersensitivity reaction
It is possible that some side effects of Welchol may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Anxiety
blurred vision
chills
cold sweats
coma
confusion
congestion
cool, pale skin
cough
depression
diarrhea
dizziness
dry or sore throat
fast heartbeat
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
hoarseness
increased hunger
joint pain
loss of appetite
muscle aches or pain
nausea
nervousness
nightmares
pounding in the ears
runny nose
seizures
shakiness
shivering
slow or fast heartbeat
slurred speech
sweating
tender, swollen glands in the neck
trouble with sleeping
trouble with swallowing
unusual tiredness or weakness
voice changes
vomiting
Bleeding after defecation
darkened urine
difficulty with swallowing
indigestion
pain or discomfort in the chest
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
pressure in the stomach
severe stomach pain
swelling of the abdominal or stomach area
unable to swallow saliva
uncomfortable swelling around the anus
yellow eyes or skin
Acid or sour stomach
belching
bloating
constipation
full or bloated feeling
heartburn
pain or cramping in the abdomen or stomach
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
Lack or loss of strength
sneezing
stuffy nose