Generic Name: iodoquinol
Applies to iodoquinol: oral tablet
As well as its needed effects, iodoquinol (the active ingredient contained in Yodoxin) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking iodoquinol, check with your doctor immediately:
Some iodoquinol side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to iodoquinol: compounding powder, oral tablet
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, vomiting, abdominal cramps, diarrhea, and pruritus ani.[Ref]
Some neuropathy may be irreversible.  Seizures and encephalopathy have been reported in at least one patient.  Optic atrophy has been reported, generally in children being treated for acrodermatitis enteropathica at daily dosages between 1300 to 3600 mg for up to two years.  Visual deterioration is generally irreversible.Clioquinol, another hydroxyquinoline, was associated with several thousand cases of subacute myelo-optic neuropathy in Japan, leading to its removal from the market.  This syndrome consisted of peripheral weakness, spastic paraparesis, dysesthesia, and optic neuropathy.Because of the neurotoxicity associated with iodoquinol (the active ingredient contained in Yodoxin) and its growing use in pediatric patients for the treatment of nonspecific chronic diarrhea in the 1970's, the American Academy of Pediatrics Committee on Drugs issued a statement recommending that products containing clioquinol or iodoquinol not be used in pediatric patients.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have been reported rarely.  These have included peripheral neuropathy and headache.  Optic atrophy has been reported, generally in pediatric patients receiving large doses for long periods of time.[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included acneiform papular or pustular skin eruptions, bulla, urticaria, and pruritus.  These reactions are related to the iodine content of iodoquinol (the active ingredient contained in Yodoxin) [Ref]
Other side effects have included fever, chills, and enlargement of the thyroid.[Ref]
1. "Warning on diiodohydroxyquin." Med Lett Drugs Ther 16 (1974): 71-2
2. "Product Information. Yodoxin (iodoquinol)." Glenwood Inc, Tenafly, NJ. 
3. Oakley GP Jr "The neurotoxicity of the halogenated hydroxyquinolines. A commentary." JAMA 225 (1973): 395-7
4. Fleisher DI, Hepler RS, Landau JW "Blindness during diiodohydroxyquin (Diodoquin) therapy: a case report." Pediatrics 54 (1974): 106-8
5. Fisher AK, Walter FG, Szabo S "Iodoquinol associated seizures and radiopacity." J Toxicol Clin Toxicol 31 (1993): 113-20
6. Pittman FE, Westphal MC "Optic atrophy following treatment with diiodohydroxyquin." Pediatrics 54 (1974): 81-3
7. American Academy of Pediatrics Committtee on Drugs "Clioquinol (iodochlorhydroxyquin, vioform) and iodoquinol (diiodohydroxyquin): blindness and neuropathy." Pediatrics 86 (1990): 797-8
8. Behrens MM "Letter: Optic atrophy in children after diiodohydroxyquin therapy." JAMA 228 (1974): 693-4
9. Committee on Drugs "Blindness and neuropathy from diiodohydroxyquin-like drugs." Pediatrics 54 (1974): 378-9
10. Idriss ZH "Letter: Diiodohydroxyquin and optic atrophy." Pediatrics 55 (1975): 299
It is possible that some side effects of Yodoxin may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Fever or chills
skin rash, hives, or itching
swelling of neck


 Blurred vision or any change in vision
clumsiness or unsteadiness
decreased vision or eye pain
increased weakness
muscle pain
numbness, tingling, pain, or weakness in hands or feet


Diarrhea
nausea or vomiting
stomach pain


Headache
itching of the rectal area 

