Generic Name: ketotifen ophthalmic
Common side effects of Zaditor include: conjunctival injection, headache, and rhinitis.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to ketotifen ophthalmic: oral syrup, oral tablet
Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, ketotifen ophthalmic (the active ingredient contained in Zaditor) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking ketotifen ophthalmic, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking ketotifen ophthalmic, get emergency help immediately:

Some ketotifen ophthalmic side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to ketotifen ophthalmic: ophthalmic solution
Common (1% to 10%): Irritation, pain, punctate keratitis, punctate corneal epithelial erosionUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Blurred vision, dry eye, eyelid disorder, conjunctivitis, photophobia, conjunctival hemorrhagePostmarketing reports: Swelling, eyelid pruritus, edema[Ref]
Ketotifen instillation was associated with mild to moderate burning or stinging in 98% of patients (n=35) in one trial.[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Headache, somnolencePostmarketing reports: Dizziness[Ref]
Postmarketing reports: Exacerbation of asthma[Ref]
The most commonly reported adverse effects have included eye irritation, eye pain, punctate keratitis, and punctate corneal epithelial erosion.[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Rash, eczema, urticariaPostmarketing reports: Contact dermatitis, facial edema, exacerbation of eczema[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Dry mouth[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Hypersensitivity, allergic reactionsPostmarketing reports: Exacerbation of preexisting allergic conditions[Ref]
1. Yanni JM, Stephens DJ, Miller ST, Weimer LK, Graff G, Parnell D, Lang LS, Spellman JM, Brady MT, Gamache DA "The in vitro and in vivo ocular pharmacology of olopatadine (AL- 4943A), an effective anti-allergic/antihistaminic agent." J Ocul Pharmacol Ther 12 (1996): 389-400
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
3. Artal MN, Luna JD, Discepola M "A forced choice comfort study of olopatadine hydrochloride 0.1% versus ketotifen fumarate 0.05%." Acta Ophthalmol Scandinavica 78 (2000): 64-5
4. "Product Information. Zaditor (ketotifen ophthalmic)" Ciba Vision Ophthalmics, Duluth, GA. 
It is possible that some side effects of Zaditor may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
ophthalmic solution

Chills
cough
 diarrhea
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
joint pain
loss of appetite
muscle aches and pains
nausea
runny nose
shivering
sore throat
sweating
trouble sleeping
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting


Abdominal or stomach pain
blistering, itching, peeling, or redness of skin
bloody or cloudy urine
clay-colored stools
 convulsions
dark urine
 difficult, burning, or painful urination
dizziness 
frequent urge to urinate
 muscle spasm or jerking of all extremities
rash 
sudden loss of consciousness
 unpleasant breath odor
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin


Blurred vision
confusion
convulsions
disorientation
dizziness
drowsiness (severe)
faintness or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
hyperexcitability
 loss of consciousness
palpitations
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness 


Weight gain


Bloody nose
drowsiness
dryness of mouth
excitation
increased appetite
irritability
nervousness
swelling of eyelids
unexplained nosebleeds

