Applies to zanamivir: inhalation disk
As well as its needed effects, zanamivir may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking zanamivir, check with your doctor immediately:
Some zanamivir side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to zanamivir: inhalation powder
Zanamivir is generally well-tolerated.  In clinical trials, the incidence of adverse events in patients treated with zanamivir was similar to that in the placebo (lactose vehicle) group.[Ref]
In a Phase I study, bronchospasm was reported in 1 of 13 patients with mild or moderate asthma following the administration of zanamivir.  In a Phase III study of patients with acute influenza-like illness and underlying asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, more patients on zanamivir (10%) than on placebo (9%) experienced greater than 20% decline in FEV1 after 5 days of treatment.[Ref]
Respiratory side effects have included cough (up to 17%), viral respiratory infections (up to 13%), nasal signs and symptoms (up to 12%), sinusitis (up to 3%), bronchitis (2%), ear, nose and throat infections (up to 2%), nasal inflammation (1%), decline in FEV1, congestion, rhinitis, and dry throat.  Asthma, exacerbation of asthma, bronchospasm, respiratory arrest, dyspnea, lung tightness, and/or decline in lung function may occur in patients with underlying respiratory disease treated with zanamivir.  Bronchospasm and dyspnea have been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Nervous system side effects have included headache (up to 24%) and dizziness (up to 2%).  Seizures, syncope, and vasovagal-like episodes shortly after inhalation have been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Other side effects have included throat and tonsil discomfort and pain (up to 19%), malaise (up to 8%), fatigue (up to 8%), temperature regulation disturbances (fever and/or chills; up to 9%), and abdominal pain in less than 1.5% of patients.  Facial edema has been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Musculoskeletal side effects have included muscle pain (up to 8%), musculoskeletal pain (6%), arthralgia and articular rheumatism (up to 2%), and myalgia (less than 1.5%).[Ref]
Dermatologic side effects have included urticaria in less than 1.5% of patients.  Rash, including serious cutaneous reactions (e.g., erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis), and urticaria have been reported during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Hypersensitivity side effects have included allergic or allergic-like reactions, including oropharyngeal edema, serious skin rashes, and anaphylaxis during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Psychiatric side effects have included delirium, including symptoms such as altered level of consciousness, confusion, abnormal behavior, delusions, hallucinations, agitation, anxiety, nightmares, during postmarketing experience.
Abnormal behavior and delirium leading to injury, with fatal outcomes in some cases, with the use of zanamivir in influenza patients have been reported.  Although frequency is unknown, based on zanamivir usage, these events appear to be uncommon.  These events were primarily reported in pediatric patients and often had an abrupt onset and rapid resolution.  Since influenza may be associated with neurologic and behavioral symptoms (including hallucinations, delirium, and abnormal behavior, with fatal outcomes in some cases), zanamivir's contribution to these events has not been established.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea (up to 3%), nausea (up to 3%), and vomiting (up to 2%).[Ref]
Metabolic side effects have included feeding problems (decreased or increased appetite and anorexia; up to 4%) and elevated creatine phosphokinase.[Ref]
Hepatic side effects have included elevated liver enzymes.[Ref]
Hematologic side effects have included lymphopenia and neutropenia.[Ref]
Cardiovascular side effects have included arrhythmias during postmarketing experience.[Ref]
Renal side effects have included one case report acute renal failure, increased serum creatinine, hyperkalemia, and hypotension in a patient with multiple medical problems and multiple other medications.[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Relenza (zanamivir)" Glaxo Wellcome, Research Triangle Pk, NC. 
2. Cheer SM,  Wagstaff AJ "Zanamivir: an update of its use in influenza." Drugs 62 (2002): 71-106
3. "Antiviral drugs for influenza." Med Lett Drugs Ther 54 (2012): 1-3
4. Laforce C,  Man CY,  Henderson FW, et al. "Efficacy and safety of inhaled zanamivir in the prevention of influenza in community-dwelling, high-risk adult and adolescent subjects: a 28-day, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial." Clin Ther 29 (2007): 1579-1590
5. Williamson JC, Pegram PS "Respiratory distress associated with zanamivir." N Engl J Med 342 (2000): 661-2
6. "Antiviral drugs for influenza 2012-2013." Med Lett Drugs Ther 54 (2012): 97-8
7. Montalto NJ, Gum KD, Ashley JV "Updated treatment for influenza A and B." Am Fam Physician 62 (2000): 2467-76
8. Anekthananon T,  Pukritayakamee S,  Ratanasuwan W, et al. "Oseltamivir and inhaled zanamivir as influenza prophylaxis in Thai health workers: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled safety trial over 16 weeks." J Antimicrob Chemother 68 (2013): 697-707
9. Dreitlein WB, Maratos J, Brocavich J "Zanamivir and oseltamivir: Two new options for the treatment and prevention of influenza." Clin Ther 23 (2001): 327-55
10. Moscona A "Neuraminidase inhibitors for influenza." N Engl J Med 353 (2005): 1363-73
11. Jefferson T,  Demicheli V,  Rivetti D,  Jones M,  Di Pietrantonj C,  Rivetti A "Antivirals for influenza in healthy adults: systematic review." Lancet 367 (2006): 303-13
12. McNicholl IR,  McNicholl JJ "Neuraminidase inhibitors: zanamivir and oseltamivir." Ann Pharmacother 35 (2001): 57-70
13. Macdonald L "New influenza drugs zanamivir (Relenza (TM)) and oseltamivir (Tamiflu (TM)): unexpected serious reactions." Can Med Assn J 163 (2000): 879-81
14. Monto AS, Fleming DM, Henry D, et al. "Efficacy and safety of the neuraminidase inhibitor zanamivir in the treatment of influenza A and B virus infections." J Infect Dis 180 (1999): 254-61
It is possible that some side effects of zanamivir may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Convulsions
dizziness and fainting
fast, slow, or irregular heartbeat
flushing or reddening of the skin
increased sensitivity to sunlight
itching, pain, redness, swelling, or watering of the eye or eyelid
joint pain
severe skin rash or hives
shortness of breath or troubled breathing
swelling or puffiness of the face
swollen glands or tightness in the throat
tightness in the chest or wheezing


Change in hearing
cough
cough producing mucus
diarrhea
dizziness
ear drainage
ear, nose, and throat infections
earache
fever or chills
headache
nasal signs and symptoms
nausea
pain and pressure over cheeks
pain in the ear
shortness of breath
vomiting

