As well as its needed effects, miglustat (the active ingredient contained in Zavesca) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking miglustat, check with your doctor immediately:
Some miglustat side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most commonly reported adverse reactions included diarrhea, flatulence, abdominal pain, weight loss, and tremor; the most common serious adverse reaction was peripheral neuropathy; diarrhea and tremor were the side effects that most commonly required intervention.
Osmotic diarrhea appears to be due to inhibitory activity of miglustat (the active ingredient contained in Zavesca) on intestinal disaccharidases leading to reduced absorption of dietary disaccharides in the small intestine.  Diarrhea decreased over time with continued therapy.
Very common (10% or more): Diarrhea (including osmotic diarrhea; up to 100%), abdominal pain (up to 67%), flatulence (up to 50%), nausea (up to 22%), vomiting (up to 11%)Common (1% to 10%): Constipation, dry mouth, dyspepsia, epigastric pain not food-related, bloating, stomach pain, gas, abdominal distension/discomfortFrequency not reported: Dysphagia, indigestion, dry mouth
Weight loss has been observed in approximately 55% to 65% of patients.  Peak weight loss occurs between 6 and 12 months, with a mean weight loss of 6% to 7% of body weight.  It is unclear if weight loss results from the diarrhea and associated gastrointestinal complaints, a decrease in food intake, or a combination of these or other factors.  There is a trend to return to baseline weight after the first year.
Very common (10% or more): Weight decrease (up to 67%)Common (1% to 10%): Anorexia
Very common (10% or more): Tremor/exacerbation of existing tremor (about 30%), headache (up to 22%), tremor (up to 17%), dizziness (up to 11%)Common (1% to 10%): Unsteady gait, paresthesia, migraine, peripheral neuropathy, ataxia, hypoesthesiaFrequency not reported: Gait abnormal, gait spastic, hyperreflexia
The most common serious adverse reaction in clinical trials was peripheral neuropathy.  Tremor, and worsening tremor were very commonly reported.  Compared to the general population, patients with type 1 Gaucher disease are more likely to have peripheral neuropathy.  A patient should be evaluated for tremor and neuropathy prior to starting therapy.
Very common (10% or more): Generalized weakness (up to 17%)Common (1% to 10%):Fatigue, asthenia, chills, malaise, painFrequency not reported: Fatigue, lacerations
Very common (10% or more): Visual disturbances (up to 17%)
Very common (10% or more): Cramps (up to 11%)Common (1% to 10%): Muscle spasmsFrequency not reported: Leg cramps, muscle cramps, back pain, heaviness in arms and legs
Common (1% to 10%): Memory lossFrequency not reported: Insomnia, decreased appetite, depression, decreased libido
Common (1% to 10%): ThrombocytopeniaFrequency not reported: Mild reduction in platelet count
Common (1% to 10%): Menstrual disorder
Frequency not reported: Nasopharyngitis, cough, sinusitis
It is possible that some side effects of Zavesca may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
diarrhea
pinpoint red spots on the skin
trembling or shaking in the hands
unsteadiness or awkwardness
unusual bleeding or bruising
weakness in the arms, hands, legs, or feet
weight loss
Back pain
bloated or full feeling
blurred or loss of vision
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
disturbed color perception
dizziness
double vision
dry mouth
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
halos around lights
headache
heartburn
heaviness in the limbs
indigestion
leg cramps
loss of appetite
memory loss
menstrual changes
nausea
pain or discomfort in the chest, upper stomach, or throat
passing gas
stomach discomfort, upset or pain
swelling of the abdominal or stomach area
tunnel vision
unsteady walk
vomiting