Generic Name: sertraline
Common side effects of Zoloft include: diarrhea, dizziness, drowsiness, dyspepsia, fatigue, insomnia, loose stools, nausea, tremor, headache, paresthesia, anorexia, decreased libido, delayed ejaculation, diaphoresis, ejaculation failure, and xerostomia. Other side effects include: abdominal pain, agitation, pain, vomiting, anxiety, hypouricemia, and malaise.  See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Applies to sertraline: oral capsule, oral solution, oral tablet
As well as its needed effects, sertraline (the active ingredient contained in Zoloft) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention. 
If any of the following side effects occur while taking sertraline, check with your doctor immediately:
Some sertraline side effects may not need any medical attention. As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear. Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:


Applies to sertraline: oral concentrate, oral tablet
The most commonly reported side effect was nausea, which was dose dependent and often transient in nature.  The most common side effects associated with discontinuation of sertraline (the active ingredient contained in Zoloft) treatment at an incidence at least twice that for placebo and at least 1% for sertraline in clinical trials included abdominal pain, agitation, diarrhea, dizziness, dry mouth, dyspepsia, ejaculation failure, fatigue, headache, hot flushes, insomnia, nausea, nervousness, palpitation, somnolence, and tremor.The overall profile of side effects in pediatric clinical trials was generally similar to that seen in adult studies.  Fever, hyperkinesia, urinary incontinence, aggressive reaction, sinusitis, epistaxis, and purpura were reported in clinical trials in pediatric patients at an incidence of at least 2% and at a rate of at least twice that of placebo.  In clinical trials in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years with major depressive disorder, the incidence of discontinuation due to side effects was reported at 9%; the most common reactions leading to discontinuation were agitation, suicidal ideation, hyperkinesia, suicide attempt, and aggravated depression.[Ref]
Antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment.  An increased risk of suicidal thinking and behavior in children, adolescents, and young adults (aged 18 to 24 years) with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders has been reported with short-term use of antidepressant drugs.Adult and pediatric patients receiving antidepressants for MDD, as well as for psychiatric and nonpsychiatric indications, have reported symptoms that may be precursors to emerging suicidality, including anxiety, agitation, panic attacks, insomnia, irritability, hostility, aggressiveness, impulsivity, akathisia, hypomania, and mania.  Causality has not been established.In a 12-week placebo-controlled study in pediatric patients with OCD, side effects observed at an incidence of at least 5% and at a statistically significant increased level for sertraline (the active ingredient contained in Zoloft) compared with placebo were insomnia and agitation in 6 to 12 year olds, and insomnia in 13 to 17 year olds.  In clinical trials in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years with major depressive disorder, agitation was reported at a frequency of at least 2% and at least twice that of placebo.  Suicide attempt was reported in the same number of patients in the sertraline (2 out of 189) and placebo (2 out of 184) groups.  Suicide ideation was reported by 3 sertraline-treated patients and no placebo-treated patients; however the difference was not statistically significant.Mania, affect lability were also commonly reported in controlled trials in pediatric patients.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): InsomniaCommon (1% to 10%): Abnormal thinking, affect/emotional lability, agitation, anxiety, bruxism, depersonalization, depression, nervousness, nightmare, mania, paroniriaUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Abnormal dreams, aggravated depression, aggressive reaction, apathy, delusions, euphoria, hallucination, paranoid reaction Rare (less than 0.1%): Conversion disorder, drug dependence, dysphonia, illusion, psychotic disorder, sleep walking, suicide attempt, suicide ideation/behavior, withdrawal syndromePostmarketing reports: Depressive symptoms, manic reaction, psychomotor restlessness, psychosis[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Dizziness, headache, somnolence, tremorCommon (1% to 10%): Convulsions (including myoclonus), disturbance in attention, dysgeusia, hypertonia, hyperkinesia, hypoesthesia, impaired concentration, paresthesiaUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Abnormal coordination, abnormal gait, amnesia, ataxia, confusion, dystonia, hyperesthesia, hypokinesia, involuntary muscle contractions, leg cramps, migraine, nystagmus, postural dizziness, speech disorder, syncopeRare (less than 0.1%): Cerebrovascular disorder, choreoathetosis, coma, dyskinesia, hyporeflexia, hypotonia, sensory disturbance, somnambulism Postmarketing reports: Akathisia, cerebrovascular spasm (including reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome and Call-Fleming syndrome), extrapyramidal symptoms, gait abnormalities, movement disorders, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, oculogyric crisis, serotonin syndrome[Ref]
In a 12-week placebo-controlled study in pediatric patients with OCD, side effects observed at an incidence of at least 5% and at a statistically significant increased level for sertraline compared with placebo were headache (in 6 to 12 year olds) and tremor (in 13 to 17 year olds).  In clinical trials in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years with major depressive disorder, hyperkinesia and tremor were reported at a frequency of at least 2% and at least twice that of placebo.Potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with SSRIs and SNRIs as monotherapy, but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs and drugs that impair the metabolism of serotonin.  Signs and symptoms associated with serotonin syndrome or neuroleptic malignant syndrome included agitation, confusion, diaphoresis, diarrhea, fever, hypertension, rigidity, and tachycardia and were in some cases associated with concomitant use of serotonergic drugs.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Chest pain, palpitations Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Edema, dependent edema, flushing, generalized edema, hot flush, hypertension, hypotension, peripheral edema, peripheral ischemia, postural dizziness, postural hypotension, tachycardiaRare (less than 0.1%): Aggravated hypertension, bradycardia, cardiac disorder, myocardial infarction, pallor, precordial chest pain, substernal chest pain, vasodilation, vasodilation procedurePostmarketing reports: Atrial arrhythmias, AV block, QT-interval prolongation, vasculitis, ventricular tachycardia (including torsade de pointes)[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Diarrhea, dry mouth, nauseaCommon (1% to 10%): Abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, increased saliva, vomitingUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Aggravated tooth caries, dysphagia, eructation, esophagitis, gastroenteritis, hemorrhoids, salivary hypersecretion, tongue disorderRare (less than 0.1%): Aphthous stomatitis, colitis, diverticulitis, fecal incontinence, gastritis, glossitis, gum hyperplasia, hematochezia, hemorrhagic peptic ulcer, melena, mouth ulceration, proctitis, rectum hemorrhage, stomatitis, tenesmus, tongue ulceration, ulcerative stomatitisPostmarketing reports: Gastrointestinal bleeding, pancreatitis[Ref]
There are two cases in the literature in which the use of Lactobacillus acidophilus capsules were reported to have been very helpful in the treatment of persistent, sertraline-induced diarrhea.A study of 26,005 antidepressant users has reported 3.6 times more upper GI bleeding episodes with the use of SSRIs relative to the population who did not receive antidepressant medications.  Upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding was observed in 4.1 times more frequently in patients receiving sertraline.In clinical trials in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years with major depressive disorder diarrhea, vomiting, and dry mouth were reported at a frequency of at least 2% and at least twice that of placebo.[Ref]
The results of one study appear to indicate that treatment with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors may cause an increase in serum total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, and/or LDL cholesterol.  However, additional studies are necessary to confirm these findings.Numerous cases of hyponatremia have been reported following treatment with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI).  Risk factors for the development of SSRI- associated hyponatremia including advanced age, female gender, concomitant use of diuretics, low body weight, and lower baseline serum sodium levels have been identified.  Hyponatremia tends to develop within the first few weeks of treatment (range 3 to 120 days) and typically resolves within 2 weeks (range 48 hours to 6 weeks) after therapy has been discontinued with some patients requiring treatment.  The proposed mechanism for the development of hyponatremia involves the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) via release of antidiuretic hormone.In clinical trials in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years with major depressive disorder, anorexia was reported at a frequency of at least 2% and at least twice that of placebo.  In a 12-week placebo-controlled study in pediatric patients with OCD, anorexia was observed at an incidence of at least 5% and at a statistically significant increased level for sertraline (the active ingredient contained in Zoloft) compared with placebo in 13 to 17 year olds.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Anorexia, increased/decreased appetite, small mean decrease in serum uric acid, small mean increases in total cholesterol and triglycerides, weight increased/decreasedUncommon (0.1% to 1%): ThirstRare (less than 0.1%): Diabetes mellitus, hypercholesterolemia, hypoglycemiaPostmarketing reports: Hyperglycemia, hyponatremia[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): FatigueCommon (1% to 10%): Asthenia, fever, malaise, tinnitusUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Chills, cold clammy skin, earache, face edema, otitis externa, rigors, vertigo Rare (less than 0.1%): Drug tolerance decreased, hernia, hyperacusis, injury, labyrinthine disorder, otitis mediaPostmarketing reports: Abnormal clinical laboratory results, death[Ref]
In placebo-controlled trials ejaculation failure (primarily delayed ejaculation) in men was reported as a treatment-emergent side effect in 14% of men taking sertraline (the active ingredient contained in Zoloft)  compared to 1% in the placebo group.  The estimates of the incidence of untoward sexual experience and performance may underestimate their actual incidence, partly because patients and physicians may be reluctant to discuss this issue.  In clinical trials in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years with major depressive disorder urinary incontinence was reported at a frequency of at least 2% and at least twice that of placebo.[Ref]
Very common (10% or more): Ejaculation failureCommon (1% to 10%): Decreased libido, erectile dysfunction, impotence, menstrual irregularities, other male/female sexual dysfunction, urinary retention, vaginal hemorrhageUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Albuminuria, amenorrhea, cystitis, dysmenorrhea, dysuria, menstrual disorder, intermenstrual bleeding, leukorrhea, micturition disorder, nocturia, pollakiuria, polyuria, urinary incontinenceRare (less than 0.1%): Abnormal semen, acute female mastitis, atrophic vulvovaginitis, balanoposthitis, breast enlargement, female breast pain, galactorrhea, genital discharge, gynecomastia, hematuria, increased libido, menorrhagia, oliguria, premature ejaculation, priapism, strangury, urinary hesitation Postmarketing reports: Enuresis[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Acne, increased sweating, rash, urticaria Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Alopecia, cold sweat, dry skin, erythematous rash, maculopapular rash, photosensitivity reaction, pruritus, purpura, skin disorderRare (less than 0.1%): Bullous eruption, contact dermatitis, dermatitis, eczema, follicular rash, hair texture abnormal, hypertrichosis, pustular rash, skin discoloration, skin odor abnormalPostmarketing reports: Angioedema, hematomas, severe skin reactions (including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and epidermal necrolysis)[Ref]
Endocrine side effects including two cases of galactorrhea have been reported in association with sertraline (the active ingredient contained in Zoloft) therapy.  Two cases of breast discomfort and enlargement without galactorrhea have also been reported.Case reports have suggested that sertraline, like other serotonin- specific reuptake inhibitors, may induce the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH).  Seven cases of hyponatremia have been reported, four of which were associated with SIADH.  Six of the seven patients were over 60 years of age.[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Hypothyroidism Postmarketing reports: Hyperprolactinemia, syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): AnemiaRare (less than 0.1%): LymphadenopathyPostmarketing reports: Agranulocytosis, altered platelet function, aplastic anemia, increased coagulation times, leukopenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Asymptomatic elevations in serum transaminasesRare (less than 0.1%): Abnormal hepatic functionPostmarketing reports: Elevated hepatic enzymes, hepatomegaly, hepatitis, increased bilirubin, jaundice, liver failure[Ref]
The majority of liver events appear to be reversible upon sertraline treatment cessation.[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Hypersensitivity, periorbital edemaRare (less than 0.1%): Allergic reaction, allergy, anaphylactoid reaction, tongue edema Postmarketing reports: Serum sickness[Ref]
Uncommon (0.1% to 1%): Herpes simplex[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Arthralgia, back pain, myalgiaUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Arthrosis, muscle cramps, muscle weakness, muscle twitching, osteoarthritis, twitchingRare (less than 0.1%): Bone disorderPostmarketing reports: Bone fracture, lupus-like syndrome[Ref]
Epidemiological studies, primarily in patients aged 50 years or older, have shown an increased risk of bone fractures in patients receiving SSRIs or TCAs.[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Abnormal vision, visual disturbanceUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Abnormal accommodation, conjunctivitis, eye pain, mydriasisRare (less than 0.1%): Abnormal lacrimation, angle-closure glaucoma, anterior chamber eye hemorrhage, diplopia, exophthalmos, photophobia, ptosis, scotoma, visual field defect, xerophthalmiaPostmarketing reports: Blindness, cataract, optic neuritis[Ref]
There was one case of neoplasm reported in one patient receiving sertraline (the active ingredient contained in Zoloft) compared to no cases in the placebo-treated group.[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Neoplasm[Ref]
Rare (less than 0.1%): Cystitis, pyelonephritis, renal pain Postmarketing reports: Acute renal failure[Ref]
Common (1% to 10%): Pharyngitis, rhinitis, yawningUncommon (0.1% to 1%): Bronchospasm, coughing, dyspnea, epistaxis, sinusitis, upper respiratory tract infectionRare (less than 0.1%): Apnea, bradypnea, bronchitis, hemoptysis, hiccups, hyperventilation, hypoventilation, laryngismus, laryngitis, laryngospasm, stridorFrequency not reported: Interstitial lung diseasePostmarketing reports: Pulmonary hypertension[Ref]
1. "Product Information. Zoloft (sertraline)." Roerig Division, New York, NY. 
2. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "Australian Product Information." O 0
3. Cerner Multum,  Inc. "UK Summary of Product Characteristics." O 0
4. Dalton SO,  Johansen C,  Mellemkjaer L,  Norgard B,  Sorensen HT,  Olsen JH "Use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and risk of upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding: a population-based cohort study." Arch Intern Med 163 (2003): 59-64
5. Kline MD, Koppes S "Acidophilus for sertraline-induced diarrhea." Am J Psychiatry 151 (1994): 1521-2
6. Jacob S,  Spinler SA "Hyponatremia associated with selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors in older adults." Ann Pharmacother 40 (2006): 1618-22
7. Herran A,  Ramirez ML,  Carrera M, et al. "Panic disorder, treatment with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, and cholesterol levels." J Clin Psychopharmacol 26 (2006): 538-40
8. Rothschild AJ "Sexual side effects of antidepressants." J Clin Psychiatry 61 (2000): 28-36
9. Lin NC,  Chou JY,  Chen H,  Chen VC "Sertraline-induced photoallergic reaction." J Clin Psychopharmacol 29 (2009): 95-6
10. Bradley ME, Foote EF, Lee EN, Merkle L "Sertraline-associated syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone: case report and review of the literature." Pharmacotherapy 16 (1996): 680-3
11. "Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and SIADH." Med J Aust 164 (1996): 562
12. Thornton SL, Resch DS "SIADH associated with sertraline therapy." Am J Psychiatry 152 (1995): 809
13. Doshi D, Borison R "Association of transient SIADH with sertraline." Am J Psychiatry 151 (1994): 779-80
14. Llorente MD, Gorelick M, Silverman MA "Sertraline as the cause of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion." J Clin Psychiatry 55 (1994): 543-4
15. Kessler J, Samuels SC "Sertraline and hyponatremia." N Engl J Med 335 (1996): 524
16. Bronzo MR, Stahl SM "Galactorrhea induced by sertraline." Am J Psychiatry 150 (1993): 1269-70
17. Crews JR, Potts NL, Schreiber J, Lipper S "Hyponatremia in a patient treated with sertraline." Am J Psychiatry 150 (1993): 1564
18. Jackson C, Carson W, Markowitz J, Mintzer J "SIADH associated with fluoxetine and sertraline therapy." Am J Psychiatry 152 (1995): 809-10
It is possible that some side effects of Zoloft may not have been reported. These can be reported to the FDA here. Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.

Decreased sexual desire or ability
failure to discharge semen (in men)


Aggressive reaction
breast tenderness or enlargement
confusion
convulsions
diarrhea
drowsiness
dryness of the mouth
fast talking and excited feelings or actions that are out of control
fever
inability to sit still
increase in body movements
increased sweating
increased thirst
lack of energy
loss of bladder control
mood or behavior changes
muscle spasm or jerking of all extremities
nosebleeds
overactive reflexes
racing heartbeat
red or purple spots on the skin
restlessness
shivering
skin rash, hives, or itching
sudden loss of consciousness
unusual or sudden body or facial movements or postures
unusual secretion of milk (in females)


Abdominal or stomach pain
bleeding gums
blindness
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating
blood in the urine
bloody, black, or tarry stools
blue-yellow color blindness
blurred vision
chest pain or discomfort
chills
clay-colored stools
cough or hoarseness
darkened urine
decreased urine output
decreased vision
depressed mood
difficulty with breathing
difficulty with speaking
difficulty with swallowing
drooling
dry skin and hair
eye pain
fainting
feeling cold
feeling of discomfort
feeling, seeing, or hearing things that are not there
general feeling of discomfort, illness, tiredness, or weakness
hair loss
high fever
high or low blood pressure
hoarseness or husky voice
hostility
increased clotting times
indigestion
inflamed joints
irritability
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
lethargy
lightheadedness
loss of appetite
loss of balance control
loss of bladder control
lower back or side pain
muscle aches
muscle cramps and stiffness
muscle trembling, jerking, or stiffness
muscle twitching
painful or difficult urination
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
pale skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rapid weight gain
rash
red, irritated eyes
red, sore, or itching skin
right upper stomach pain and fullness
severe mood or mental changes
severe muscle stiffness
shuffling walk
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
sores, welting, or blisters
stiffness of the limbs
sweating
swelling of the face, ankles, or hands
swollen or painful glands
talking or acting with excitement you cannot control
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing
twisting movements of the body
twitching
uncontrolled movements, especially of the face, neck, and back
unexplained bleeding or bruising
unpleasant breath odor
unusual behavior
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood
weight gain
yellow eyes and skin


Acid or sour stomach
belching
decreased appetite or weight loss
diarrhea or loose stools
heartburn
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
stomach or abdominal cramps, gas, or pain
trouble sleeping


Agitation, anxiety, or nervousness
bladder pain
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
changes in vision
cloudy urine
constipation
difficult, burning, or painful urination
flushing or redness of the skin, with feeling of warmth or heat
frequent urge to urinate
increased appetite
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
stuffy or runny nose


Flushed, dry skin
fruit-like breath odor
increased hunger
increased urination
redness or other discoloration of the skin
severe sunburn
swelling of the breasts (in women)
unexplained weight loss
unusual secretion of milk (in women)

