Commonly reported side effects of acarbose include: abdominal pain, diarrhea, and flatulence.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking acarbose, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
The most frequently reported adverse events include abdominal pain, diarrhea, and flatulence.
Very common ( or more): Abdominal pain , diarrhea , flatulence Uncommon ( to ): Nausea,, vomiting, dyspepsiaPostmarketing reports: Ileus/subileus, pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis
In large-scale clinical trials, a majority of patients have complained of gastrointestinal (GI) side effects.
GI side effects usually developed within the first few weeks of therapy, were usually mild to moderate in severity, and typically decreased over time.
The most common GI side effects were due to the fermentation of unabsorbed carbohydrates and resultant gas production.
The severity of GI symptoms may be decreased by dosage reduction and by avoidance of gas-producing foods and sucrose.
There have been rare postmarketing reports of pneumatosis cystoides intestinalis associated with alpha-glucosidase inhibitors including this drug.
If suspected, discontinue therapy and perform appropriate diagnostic testing.
Very common ( or more): Serum transaminase elevations Postmarketing reports: Fulminant hepatitis with fatal outcome, jaundice and/or hepatitis and associated liver damage
Treatment-emergent elevations of AST and ALT to greater the upper limit of normal, greater than  x ULN) and greater than  x ULN have been observed in , , and  of patients in studies of up to  months with doses up to  mg  times a day.
The elevations were more common in women and generally asymptomatic and reversible.
Additionally, these elevations appear to be dose-related.
International postmarketing experience: There have been  reports of of serum transaminase elevations to greater than  international units/liter,  were associated with jaundice.
Of these  cases,  were receiving treatment with  mg  times a day or greater,  of  patients for whom weight was reported weighed less than  kg.
In the  cases for which follow-up was provided,  had improvement or resolution of hepatic abnormalities with drug discontinuation, in  cases the hepatic abnormalities remained unchanged.
Five cases of fulminant hepatitis with fatal outcome have been reported in Japan.
Frequency not reported: Small reductions in hematocritPostmarketing reports: Thrombocytopenia
Frequency not reported: Acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis
Postmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity skin reactions (  rash, erythema, exanthema, urticaria)
Postmarketing reports: Edema
This drug when administered as monotherapy should not cause hypoglycemia, but when administered with other agents, it may increase the potential for hypoglycemia.
Low serum calcium and low plasma vitamin B levels were associated with use of this drug, however, they are thought to be spurious or of no clinical significance.
Frequency not reported: Hypoglycemia, low serum calcium, low plasma vitamin B levels
Yellow eyes or skin
Abdominal or stomach pain
bloated feeling or passing of gas
diarrhea