Check with your doctor if any of these most COMMON side effects persist or become bothersome:
Constipation; diarrhea; temporary darkening of the stool; vomiting.
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, or tongue).
Gastrointestinal side effects have frequently included nausea and vomiting ( to ) and constipation.
Bowel obstruction, ileus, chalk like taste, perforation of the gastrointestinal tract and subsequent charcoal (the active ingredient contained in Activated Charcoal) peritoneum, and black colored stools have also been reported.
A young woman developed a surgically acute abdomen following orogastric lavage and charcoal administration.
Laparotomy revealed charcoal throughout the peritoneum.
Complications included peritonitis, adhesions, abscess formation, persistent peritoneal charcoal deposits, oophorectomy, and small bowel resection.
A case report has described charcoal bezoar and small bowel obstruction following administration of  to  g of activated charcoal via nasogastric tube every  to  hours for  days.
In a study of  patients,  years old or younger,  (/) experienced vomiting within Bowel obstruction and ileus have occurred with multiple-dose administration.
Although charcoal is tasteless, it adheres to the surfaces of the mouth and tongue, producing a chalk like taste that can be unpalatable.
Metabolic side effects have included hypernatremia, hypermagnesemia.
electrolyte abnormalities, dehydration, and shock.
Metabolic side effects occur primarily when sorbitol is combined with charcoal.
Multiple-dose activated charcoal has been associated with hypernatremia and hypermagnesemia.
Respiratory side effects have included bronchiolitis obliterans, empyema, and Adult Respiratory Distress Syndrome.
Bronchiolitis obliterans and empyema have occurred due to charcoal aspiration following emesis.
Accidental administration of charcoal directly into the lungs has resulted in Adult Respiratory Distress Syndrome.
Ocular side effects have included corneal abrasions.
Corneal abrasions may occur if charcoal comes in contact with eyes.
Exacerbation of variegate porphyria may lead to increases in skin lesions, and urine and plasma porphyrins.
Hematologic side effects have included exacerbation of variegate porphyria.