Common side effects of Addyi include: syncope, central nervous system depression, dizziness, drowsiness, fatigue, nausea, sedation, and hypotension.
Other side effects include: insomnia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
When this drug is used alone, the incidence of hypotension is  and syncope is .
When this drug is taken with  g/kg alcohol,  had substantial reductions in blood pressure, resulting in hypotension and/or syncope requiring medical intervention.
When  g/kg alcohol was taken in combination with this drug,  experienced orthostatic hypotension.
Uncommon ( to ): Hypotension, syncope
Very common ( or more): Dizziness , somnolence Common ( to ): Sedation, fatigue, vertigo
Patients taking hormonal contraceptives (HC) had a greater incidence of dizziness, somnolence, and fatigue compared to patients who did not use HC.
-Serious adverse reactions were reported in  of patients.
The discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions was .
The most common adverse reactions leading to discontinuation were dizziness, nausea, insomnia, somnolence, and anxiety.
-The majority of adverse reactions began within the first  days of treatment.
Common ( to ): Accidental injury
Among patients who experienced accidental injury,  reported adverse reactions consistent with CNS depression (, somnolence, sedation, or fatigue) within the preceding  hours.
Common ( to ): Insomnia, anxiety
Very common ( or more): Nausea Common ( to ): Dry mouth, constipationUncommon ( to ): Appendicitis
Common ( to ): Metrorrhagia
Common ( to ): Abdominal pain
Common ( to ): Rash
Blurred vision
confusion
dizziness, fainting, or lightheadedness, especially when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
Feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
sensation of spinning
Bloating
fever
nausea
severe cramping
stomach or lower abdominal pain
vomiting
Constipation
dry mouth
nervousness
normal menstrual bleeding occurring earlier, possibly lasting longer than expected
rash
trouble sleeping