In general, side effects have been classified as mild and transient.
Less than  of patients in clinical trials discontinued treatment due to side effects.
The most frequent adverse reactions associated with immediate-release formulations have included diarrhea/loose stools , nausea , skin rashes and urticaria , vomiting , and vaginitis .
Extended-release tablets have been most frequently associated with diarrhea , vaginal mycosis , nausea , and loose stools .
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea, nausea, abdominal pain, vomiting, indigestion, gastritis, generalized abdominal cramps, stomatitis, glossitis, mucocutaneous candidiasis, enterocolitis, black "hairy" tongue, small intestinal motor disturbances, hemorrhagic colitis, and pseudomembranous colitis.
Colitis and Clostridium difficile pseudomembranous colitis have been reported with amoxicillin.
Amoxicillin has been associated with hemorrhagic, sometimes inflammatory colitis, which typically affects the ascending colon.
In addition, C difficile pseudomembranous colitis should be considered in patients who develop severe or prolonged diarrhea during or following amoxicillin-clavulanate therapy.
The incidence of diarrhea appears to increase with higher doses, and to decrease with twice daily dosing regimens (of immediate release formulations).
Hypersensitivity reactions to amoxicillin are more likely in patients with a history of allergy, asthma, hay fever, or urticaria.
Hypersensitivity reactions have occurred in up to  of patients, and may present as a skin rash, urticaria, pruritus, angioedema, serum sickness-like reactions (urticaria or skin rash accompanied by arthritis, arthralgia, myalgia, and frequently fever), erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome (rarely), acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, hypersensitivity vasculitis, exfoliative dermatitis, and toxic epidermal necrolysis.
Anaphylaxis has been rarely reported (up to ).
Hypersensitivity may play a role in some cases of amoxicillin-clavulanate-induced renal and hepatic toxicity.
Urticarial rash, erythematous maculopapular rash, edema, hypotension, fever, eosinophilia, and dyspnea have been associated with hypersensitivity reactions to amoxicillin.
Three out of four patients with infectious mononucleosis and an amoxicillin-associated rash displayed hypersensitivity to amoxicillin and ampicillin by skin tests and lymphocyte transformation tests.
Two of these patients had side-chain-specific sensitization.
Dermatologic side effects have included rash, fixed drug eruption, bullous pemphigoid, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and exfoliative dermatitis.
Amoxicillin rashes occur more frequently in patients with unrecognized infectious mononucleosis.
This rash is not necessarily indicative of a lifelong amoxicillin hypersensitivity.
Hepatic side effects have included moderate elevations in serum transaminases (ALT and/or AST).
Hepatic dysfunction (including cholestatic jaundice and hepatitis, increases in ALT and/or AST, serum bilirubin, and/or alkaline phosphatase) has been reported infrequently.
Rare cases of jaundice, ductopenia, cholestatic hepatitis, granulomatous hepatitis, hepatic necrosis, and hepatocellular damage have also been reported.
Less than  death per approximately  million prescriptions has been reported worldwide.
Hepatic cholestasis and acute cytolytic hepatitis have been reported with amoxicillin use.
In cases of amoxicillin-clavulanate-induced hepatotoxicity, biopsy findings have typically revealed evidence of cholestatic injury.
However, hepatocellular and mixed-type (cholestatic and hepatocellular) injury have also been documented.
In many instances, hepatotoxicity may be due to a hypersensitivity.
Onset of symptoms has been delayed in some patients, with presentation occurring after therapy has been discontinued.
Prolonged treatment may increase the risk of hepatotoxicity.
Elderly patients may be at increased risk of developing amoxicillin-clavulanate-induced jaundice.
Fatalities are rare, but have been reported.
Rechallenge with amoxicillin alone has not been followed by a recurrence of hepatitis.
However, rechallenge with amoxicillin-clavulanate has resulted in a relapse of liver injury.
Therefore, the clavulanic acid may be the hepatotoxic part of the drug.
In patients with liver disease, frequent monitoring of liver function tests during amoxicillin-clavulanate therapy is recommended.
Renal side effects have rarely included crystalluria, hematuria, acute renal failure, and acute interstitial nephritis, often associated with fever, rash, and eosinophilia.
A -year-old female developed massive crystalluria, gross hematuria, and acute anuric renal failure after  days of intravenous amoxicillin-clavulanate at a dose of  g amoxicillin  times daily (not available in the United States).
The crystals were composed of amoxicillin trihydrate.
The renal failure and hematuria resolved over  days after discontinuation of the antibiotic.
Amoxicillin has been shown to induce hemolytic anemia in rare cases.
A case of bone marrow "maturation arrest" resulting in neutropenia and of Henoch-Schonlein purpura syndrome has been associated with amoxicillin-clavulanate.
A patient undergoing dental extraction and receiving warfarin anticoagulation therapy had prolonged bleeding times (PT and INR), and decreased hemoglobin and hematocrit.
The bleeding was felt due to vitamin K deficiency as a result of depletion of intrinsic vitamin K-producing gut flora from use of amoxicillin for prophylaxis of subacute bacterial endocarditis.
Hematologic side effects associated with penicillins have included thrombocytopenia, anemia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenic purpura, eosinophilia, agranulocytosis, and leukopenia.
These are believed to be due to hypersensitivity and are usually reversible when the drug is discontinued.
Mild to moderate thrombocytosis has been reported in less than  of patients treated with amoxicillin-clavulanate and  of patients treated with the extended-release tablets.
Purpura, pancytopenia, granulocytopenia, medullary aplasia, prolongation of prothrombin time, and transient neutropenia have also been reported.
Immunologic side effects associated with amoxicillin have included mucocutaneous candidiasis and vulvovaginal mycotic infection.
Nervous system side effects have rarely included agitation, anxiety, behavioral changes, confusion, convulsions, dizziness, headache, insomnia, and reversible hyperactivity.
Rare cases of psychosis associated with amoxicillin therapy have been reported, but may have been due to underlying infection or concomitant medication.
Rarely, somnolence and aseptic meningitis have been reported with amoxicillin.
Genitourinary side effects have included genital moniliasis .
Amoxicillin-clavulanate may cause false-positive urine glucose tests in patients using Clinitest(R) tablets.
Enzymatic glucose oxidase tests should be used during amoxicillin-clavulanate therapy.
Other side effects have rarely included brown, yellow, or gray tooth discoloration, primarily in pediatric patients.
Brushing or dental cleaning reduced or eliminated the discoloration in most cases.
Respiratory side effects associated with amoxicillin have included cough and rhinorrhea.
Hives or welts
itching
itching of the vagina or genital area
pain during sexual intercourse
redness of the skin
skin rash
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
Bloody or cloudy urine
fever
greatly decreased frequency of urination or amount of urine
seizures
swelling of the feet or lower legs
Abdominal or stomach cramps or tenderness
back, leg, or stomach pains
black, hairy tongue
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating
blood in the stools
bloody nose
chest pain
chills
clay-colored stools
cough or hoarseness
cracks in the skin
dark urine
diarrhea
diarrhea, watery and severe, which may also be bloody
difficulty with breathing
difficulty with moving
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
fever with or without chills
general body swelling
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
headache
heavier menstrual periods
increased thirst
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
loss of heat from the body
lower back or side pain
muscle stiffness
nausea or vomiting
pain
pain, swelling, or redness in the joints
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rash
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
red, swollen skin
scaly skin
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swollen glands
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing with exertion
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight loss
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
vomiting of blood
white patches in the mouth or throat or on the tongue
white patches with diaper rash
yellow eyes or skin
Abdominal or stomach pain
cloudy urine
diarrhea
greatly decreased frequency of urination or amount of urine
sleepiness
Anxiety
dry mouth
hyperventilation
irregular heartbeats
irritability
restlessness
shaking
sleeplessness
tooth discoloration
trouble sitting still
trouble with sleeping
Burning feeling in the chest or stomach
indigestion
redness, swelling, or soreness of the tongue
stomach upset
swelling or inflammation of the mouth