General reactions during amphotericin B liposomal infusions, such as fever and chills/rigors, have been reported.
These symptoms usually began within a few minutes of initiation of an amphotericin B liposomal infusion.
Slowing the rate of infusion has lessened or controlled symptoms.
Severe infusion-related side effects associated with conventional amphotericin B administration have been lessened by pretreatment/treatment with corticosteroids, acetaminophen, antihistamines, and meperidine.
Metabolic side effects have included hypokalemia ( to ), hypomagnesemia ( to ), hyperglycemia ( to ), hypocalcemia ( to ), hypervolemia ( to ), and hyponatremia ( to ), hypernatremia .
Acidosis, increased amylase, hyperchloremia, hyperkalemia, hypermagnesemia, hyperphosphatemia, hypophosphatemia, hypoproteinemia, increased lactate dehydrogenase, increased nonprotein nitrogen, and respiratory alkalosis have been reported in  to  of patients.
Metabolic changes have occurred less frequently with amphotericin B liposomal than with conventional amphotericin B.
Four patients with invasive fungal infections experienced severe hyperphosphatemia coincident with amphotericin B liposomal therapy.
Resolution of the side effect occurred after transition to amphotericin B lipid complex.
Hyperphosphatemia may be reported more commonly in patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency.
Renal toxicity has been reported less frequently with amphotericin B liposomal than with conventional amphotericin B.
Renal side effects have included increased serum creatinine ( to ), BUN ( to ), and nephrotoxicity .
Abnormal renal function (including oliguria and anuria), acute kidney failure, acute renal failure, kidney failure, and toxic nephropathy have been reported in  to  of patients.
Decreased serum concentrations of potassium, magnesium, sodium, and calcium have often accompanied amphotericin-induced nephrotoxicity.
Hematologic side effects have included anemia ( to ), leukopenia ( to ), and thrombocytopenia ( to ).
Coagulation defects/disorder, ecchymosis, fluid overload, petechiae, decreased prothrombin, and increased prothrombin have been reported in  to  of patients.
Agranulocytosis has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypertension ( to ), tachycardia ( to ), hypotension ( to ), chest pain ( to ), and phlebitis ( to ).
Infusion-related effects have included tachycardia ( to ), hypertension ( to ), vasodilatation , and hypotension .
Arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, bradycardia, cardiac arrest, cardiomegaly, hemorrhage, postural hypotension, valvular heart disease, and vasodilatation (flushing) have been reported in  to  of patients.
Cardiac failure and cardiomyopathy have also been reported.
Respiratory side effects have included dyspnea ( to ), increased cough ( to ), lung disorder ( to ), epistaxis ( to ), pleural effusion , rhinitis , and hypoxia ( to ).
Infusion-related reactions have included dyspnea ( to ), hyperventilation , and hypoxia ( to ).
Asthma, atelectasis, hemoptysis, hiccup, hyperventilation, influenza-like symptoms, lung edema, pharyngitis, pneumonia, respiratory insufficiency, respiratory failure, and sinusitis have been reported in  to  of patients.
Bronchospasm, cyanosis/hypoventilation, and pulmonary edema have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea ( to ), vomiting ( to ), diarrhea ( to ), constipation ( to ), anorexia ( to ), and gastrointestinal hemorrhage .
Infusion-related reactions have included vomiting ( to ) and nausea ( to ).
Dry mouth/nose, dyspepsia, dysphagia, eructation, fecal incontinence, flatulence, hemorrhoids, gum/oral hemorrhage, hematemesis, ileus, mucositis, rectal disorder, stomatitis, and ulcerative stomatitis have been reported in  to  of patients.
Epigastric pain and cramping have been reported less frequently.
Other side effects have included chills/rigors ( to ), chills , abdominal pain ( to ), blood product transfusion reaction ( to ), peripheral edema , edema ( to ), pain , sepsis ( to ), asthenia ( to ), infection ( to ), back pain , and procedural complication ( to ).
Infusion-related reactions have included chills/rigors ( to ) and fever (up to ).
A few cases of flushing, back pain (with or without chest tightness), and chest pain have been reported with amphotericin B liposomal administration, and occasionally this has been severe.
Enlarged abdomen, face edema, malaise, and neck pain have been reported in  to  of patients.
Nervous system side effects have included headache ( to ), insomnia ( to ), confusion ( to ), dizziness ( to ), and peripheral neuropathy.
Agitation, coma, convulsion, cough, dysesthesias, paresthesia, tremor, and somnolence have been reported in  to  of patients.
Hepatic side effects have included elevated alkaline phosphatase ( to ), bilirubin ( to ), alanine transaminase (ALT,  to ), aspartate transaminase (AST,  to ), and abnormal liver function tests ( to ).
Hepatocellular damage, hepatomegaly, and veno-occlusive liver disease have been reported in  to  of patients.
Dermatologic side effects have included rash ( to ), pruritus , sweating , flushing .
Alopecia, cellulitis, dry skin, herpes simplex, maculopapular rash, purpura, skin discoloration, skin disorder, skin ulcer, urticaria, and vesiculobullous rash have been reported in  to  of patients.
Erythema has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Genitourinary side effects have included hematuria .
Dysuria, urinary incontinence, and vaginal hemorrhage have been reported in  to  of patients.
Hemorrhagic cystitis has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Psychiatric side effects have included anxiety ( to ).
Depression, hallucinations, nervousness, and abnormal thought processes have been reported in  to  of patients.
Immunologic side effects have included cell mediated immunological reaction and graft versus host disease ( to ).
Lysis syndrome has been reported during visceral leishmaniasis therapy.
Ocular side effects have included conjunctivitis, dry eyes, and eye hemorrhage in  to  of patients.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgia, bone pain, dystonia, myalgia, and rigors in  to  of patients.
Rhabdomyolysis has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included allergic reaction ( to ).
Hypersensitivity reactions have presented as bronchospasm, wheezing, or anaphylactoid reactions.
Angioedema and urticaria have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Local side effects have included inflammation at the injection site in  to  of patients.
Chills
fever
irregular heartbeat
muscle cramps or pain
unusual tiredness or weakness
Back pain
chest pain
dark urine
difficulty in breathing 
headache
yellowing of eyes or skin
Difficulty in swallowing
hives
itching, especially of feet or hands
reddening of skin, especially around ears
swelling of eyes, face, or inside of nose
unusual tiredness or weakness (sudden and severe)
Abdominal pain
cough
diarrhea
dizziness
nausea
vomiting
Skin rash