Commonly reported side effects of ambrisentan include: peripheral edema.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking ambrisentan, get emergency help immediately:
Common ( to ): Hepatic transaminase increasedFrequency not reported: Autoimmune hepatitis, hepatic injury
The cumulative incidence of hepatic transaminases elevations greater than  times the upper limit of normal was  with a mean exposure duration of  weeks.
The -week incidence was  (placebo-treated patients ).
Hepatic transaminase elevations of greater than  times the upper limit of normal were reported in  of patients at  weeks and hepatic transaminase elevations greater than  times the upper limit of normal were reported in  at -year.
An elevation of bilirubin to  times the upper limit of normal was reported in  case.
Decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit were observed during the first few weeks of treatment and appeared to stabilize thereafter.
Mean decreases in hemoglobin were  mg/dL with marked decreases in hemoglobin (greater than  decrease from baseline resulting in a value below the lower limit of normal) occurring in  of all patients.
The frequency of a marked decrease in hemoglobin was greater with the  mg dose.
The mechanism involved is unknown, but does not appear to be the result of hemorrhage or hemolysis.
Common ( to ): Hemoglobin decreased, anemiaPostmarketing reports: Decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit resulting in anemia requiring transfusion
The incidence of peripheral edema in younger patients was similar to placebo ( vs ) while the incidence in patients  years or older was greater in patients receiving drug ( vs ).
Very common ( or more): Peripheral edema (up to ) Common ( to ): Flushing, palpitations, hypotension, right ventricular failure, chest pain, cardiac failure
The occurrence of nasal congestion was dose-dependent.
Very common ( or more): Nasal congestion (up to )Common ( to ): Sinusitis, nasopharyngitis, rhinitis, cough, upper respiratory infection, bronchitis, dyspnea, dyspnea exacerbated, pulmonary hypertension, epistaxis
Common ( to ): Abdominal pain, constipation, nausea, vomitingPostmarketing reports: Diarrhea
Very common ( or more): Headache Common ( to ): Dizziness, syncope Frequency not reported: Tinnitus
Common ( to ): Hypersensitivity
Common ( to ): Urinary tract infection
The most common adverse reactions included: peripheral edema, nasal congestion, sinusitis, and flushing.
Very common ( or more): Fluid retention
Common ( to ): Arthralgia
Common ( to ): Blurred vision, visual impairmentPostmarketing reports: Visual disturbance
Common ( to ): Fatigue, astheniaFrequency not reported: Sudden hearing loss
Common ( to ): Insomnia
Common ( to ): Rash
Bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
rapid weight gain
tingling of the hands or feet
unusual weight gain or loss
Cough
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
fever
headache
muscle aches
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
tightness of the chest
trouble breathing
unusual tiredness or weakness
Abdominal or stomach pain or tenderness
chest pain
clay colored stools
dark urine
decrease in the amount of urine
decreased appetite
dilated neck veins
extreme fatigue
irregular breathing
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
nausea and vomiting
noisy, rattling breathing
pale skin
skin rash, itching
troubled breathing at rest
troubled breathing with exertion
yellow skin or eyes
Blurred vision
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
sweating
Difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
feeling of warmth
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest