Other dosage forms:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking aminophylline, get emergency help immediately:
Most of the side effects of aminophylline (theophylline) have been dependent on serum concentrations.
Generally, theophylline serum concentrations ranging from  to  mcg/mL are considered therapeutic, and serum concentrations greater than  mcg/mL are associated with greater toxicity.
There are several factors which may predispose a patient to higher serum concentrations and, thus, toxicity.
These factors may include increased age, concomitant drugs which reduce the clearance of theophylline, hypothyroidism, congestive heart failure, liver disease, renal failure, and alterations in smoking habits.
One series of patients with theophylline intoxication had recent upper respiratory tract infections.
The nature of acute toxicity of theophylline differs from chronic toxicity.
Acute overdose is associated with higher theophylline concentrations and younger patients.
In acute overdose the severity of toxicity is correlated with peak serum concentrations.
Chronic overdosage is seen more commonly in older patients, and severe toxicity may occur with serum concentrations which are much lower than those seen in severe acute toxicity.
In these patients, age is a predictor of severe toxicity.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included anorexia, nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain.
Aminophylline may also cause locally-mediated gastrointestinal upset.
The mechanism of theophylline-induced seizures has not been determined.
Seizures are generally focal with secondary generalization.
Permanent neurologic deficits have been reported and morbidity may be high, especially in the elderly, patients with severe underlying disease, and patients with prolonged, uncontrolled seizure activity.
The onset of seizures is not always preceded by less severe symptoms of aminophylline toxicity.
Patients with an abnormal neurologic history, including a history of seizures, cerebral infarct, or head trauma, may be predisposed to seizure activity.
If theophylline is used in these types of patients, serum concentrations should be monitored closely and maintained in the low, therapeutic range.
Nervous system side effects have included generalized seizures, most commonly in patients with elevated serum concentrations, although seizures have occurred at therapeutic concentrations.
Theophylline may also cause nervousness and tremor at therapeutic dosages, which become worse as serum concentrations increase.
Cardiovascular side effects have included increased heart rate which has progressed to atrial tachycardia or ventricular tachycardia.
Patients with a history of arrhythmias may be predisposed to this effect.
Hypotension has occurred with rapid intravenous administration.
Theophylline serum concentrations are a significant predictor of arrhythmias.
One study reported multifocal atrial tachycardia in  and  of patients with a serum concentration between  and  mcg/mL and greater than  mcg/mL, respectively.
The onset of serious arrhythmias is not always preceded by less severe signs of theophylline toxicity.
Patients are frequently sensitized to ethylenediamine through topical use, as it is used as a preservative in some topical preparations.
These patients are generally able to tolerate plain theophylline preparations.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included erythematous rash, pruritus, urticaria, and exfoliative erythroderma.
These side effects have been more commonly reported in patients sensitive to ethylenediamine component of aminophylline.
Metabolic side effects have included hypokalemia, hyperglycemia, respiratory alkalosis, hypophosphatemia, and hypomagnesemia.
The magnitude of these abnormalities have been correlated with theophylline concentrations.
In one group of patients with theophylline concentrations greater than  mcg/mL, hyperglycemia was present in approximately , hypokalemia in , and hypomagnesemia in .
Hyponatremia and hypophosphatemia were seen less frequently.
Genitourinary side effects have included urinary retention.
intravenous solution
Cracks in the skin
loss of heat from the body
red, swollen skin
scaly skin
skin rash
Chest pain or discomfort
dizziness
fainting
fast, slow, or irregular heartbeat
increase in urine volume
lightheadedness
persistent vomiting
pounding or rapid pulse
seizures
shakiness
Abdominal or stomach pain
blurred vision
confusion
confusion about identity, place, and time
dark-colored urine
decrease in frequency of urination
decreased urine
diarrhea
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
dry mouth
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
fever
increased thirst
irregular heartbeat
loss of appetite
mood changes
muscle cramps or spasms
muscle pain or stiffness
nausea or vomiting
nervousness
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
painful urination
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
shortness of breath
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
Headache
irritability
restlessness
sleeplessness
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep