If any of the following side effects occur while taking sulfinpyrazone, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Gastrointestinal symptoms have been the most frequently reported side effects.
Peptic ulcer disease may be exacerbated or reactivated.
Hematologic side effects including anemia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, and aplastic anemia have occurred.
Two cases of leukemia following chronic sulfinpyrazone (the active ingredient contained in Anturane) therapy have been reported.
Concomitant drug therapy was also reported and a causal relationship with sulfinpyrazone has not been established.
Dermatologic side effects have been limited to rash.
Renal failure has been reported.
Suggested mechanisms have included hypersensitivity induced interstitial nephritis, tubular-interstitial damage due to precipitation of urinary uric acid crystals, and inhibition of renal prostaglandin synthesis.
Urolithiasis and renal colic may occur following initiation of therapy.
Adequate fluid intake and urinary alkalinization are recommended.
Mobilization of urates during initiation of therapy has resulted in musculoskeletal symptoms of acute gouty arthritis.
Shortness of breath, troubled breathing, tightness in chest, and/or wheezing
sores, ulcers, or white spots on lips or in mouth
sore throat and fever with or without chills
swollen and/or painful glands
unusual bleeding or bruising
Clumsiness or unsteadiness
convulsions (seizures)
diarrhea
nausea or vomiting (severe or continuing)
stomach pain (severe or continuing)
difficulty in breathing
Lower back and/or side pain
painful urination (possibly with blood)
Skin rash
Bloody or black, tarry stools
fever 
increased blood pressure
pinpoint red spots on skin
sudden decrease in amount of urine
swelling of face, fingers, feet, and/or lower legs
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds 
weight gain
Joint pain, redness, and/or swelling
nausea or vomiting
stomach pain