Common side effects of Arcalyst include: upper respiratory tract infection and injection site reaction.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
In patients with Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS), the most common and consistently reported adverse event associated with rilonacept (the active ingredient contained in Arcalyst) was injection-site reaction (ISR).
The ISRs included erythema, swelling, pruritis, mass, bruising, inflammation, pain, edema, dermatitis, discomfort, urticaria, vesicles, warmth, and hemorrhage.
Most injection-site reactions lasted for one to two days.
No ISRs were assessed as severe, and no patient discontinued study participation due to an ISR.
Local side effects including injection-site reactions  have been reported.
One subject receiving rilonacept (the active ingredient contained in Arcalyst) for an unapproved indication developed an infection in his olecranon bursa with Mycobacterium intracellulare.
The patient was on chronic glucocorticoid treatment.
The infection occurred after an intraarticular glucocorticoid injection into the bursa with subsequent local exposure to a suspected source of mycobacteria.
The patient recovered after the administration of the appropriate antimicrobial therapy.
A patient treated for another unapproved indication developed bronchitis/sinusitis, which resulted in hospitalization.
One patient died in an open-label study of CAPS from Streptococcus pneumoniae meningitis.
Immunologic side effects including infections  have been reported.
Respiratory side effects including upper respiratory tract infection , sinusitis , and cough  have been reported.
Nervous system side effects including hypoesthesia  have been reported.
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea  diarrhea  and stomach discomfort  have been reported.
Hematologic side effects have been reported including one case of transient neutropenia (ANC less than  x /L) after receiving a large dose ( mg intravenously) of rilonacept (the active ingredient contained in Arcalyst)   Patients with CAPS treated with rilonacept experienced increases in their mean total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglycerides.
The mean increases from baseline for total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglycerides were  mg/dL,  mg/dL,  mg/dL, and  mg/dL respectively after  weeks of open-label therapy.
The patient did not experience any infection associated with the neutropenia.
Physicians should monitor the lipid profiles of their patients (for example after  to  months) and consider lipid-lowering therapies as needed based upon cardiovascular risk factors and current guidelines.
Genitourinary side effects including urinary tract infection  have been reported.
Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at site
body aches or pain
chills
cough
difficulty in breathing
ear congestion
fever
headache
loss of voice
nasal congestion
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bloody or black, tarry stools
constipation
cough producing mucus
lower back or side pain
pain or tenderness around eyes and cheekbones
painful or difficult urination
severe stomach pain
shortness of breath or troubled breathing
tenderness
tightness of chest or wheezing
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
Burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
Stomach discomfort