Hematologic side effects including overt bleeding or hemorrhage are the most common complications of argatroban therapy.
Major hemorrhagic events reported by the manufacturer include gastrointestinal bleeding , intracranial bleeding (about  in patients receiving both argatroban and thrombolytic therapy), genitourinary bleeding and hematuria , decreases in hemoglobin/hematocrit , multisystem hemorrhage/DIC ( ), and limb/below the knee amputation .
Minor hemorrhagic events reported by the manufacturer include gastrointestinal bleeding , genitourinary bleeding and hematuria , minor decreases in hemoglobin/hematocrit , groin bleeding , hemoptysis , brachial bleeding .
In a study of patients given argatroban for the treatment of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia or heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis syndrome, one patient experienced intracranial hemorrhage  days after the discontinuation of argatroban therapy and following urokinase and oral anticoagulation therapy.
Cardiovascular side effects include hypotension , cardiac arrest , ventricular tachycardia , atrial fibrillation  and cerebrovascular disorder .
Gastrointestinal side effects include diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , and abdominal pain .
Respiratory effects include dyspnea , pneumonia  and coughing .
General side effects include fever , sepsis  and pain .
Genitourinary side effects include urinary tract infection .
Immunological side effects include infection .
Bleeding from the bladder
blood in the urine
blurred vision
chest pain
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly
fever
no blood pressure or pulse
stopping of heart
sweating
unconsciousness
unusual tiredness or weakness
Arm, back, or jaw pain
bloody or black, tarry stools
chest tightness or heaviness
constipation
cough or hoarseness
coughing or spitting up blood
fast, slow, or irregular heartbeat
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
lower back or side pain
nausea
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
painful or difficult urination
palpitations
severe stomach pain
shortness of breath
sweating
vomiting
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
Abdominal pain or swelling
back pain or backaches
blue lips and fingernails
changes in skin color
cold hands and feet
coughing that sometimes produces a pink frothy sputum
diarrhea
difficult, fast, noisy breathing, sometimes with wheezing
increased sweating
indigestion
loss of appetite
pain, redness, or swelling in the arm or leg
pains in the chest, groin, or legs, especially calves of the legs
pale skin
passing of gas
severe headaches of sudden onset
stomach pain, fullness, or discomfort
sudden loss of coordination
sudden onset of shortness of breath for no apparent reason
sudden onset of slurred speech
sudden vision changes
swelling in the legs and ankles