Frequency not reported: Resumption of ovulation in premenopausal, anovulatory women, hormonal imbalance
Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events:Overall data from rosiglitazone long-term trials including the RECORD, ADOPT, and DREAM trials (rosiglitazone n=6311; control n=7756) showed no difference in overall mortality or major adverse cardiovascular events; however, a meta-analysis of shorter-term trials suggests and increased risk for myocardial infarction with rosiglitazone compared with placebo.
The RECORD trial (Rosiglitazone evaluated for Cardiac Outcomes and Regulation of Glycemia in Diabetes; mean age 58 years; 52% male) revealed no significant difference in cardiovascular hospitalization or cardiovascular death (primary outcome) among patients with type 2 diabetes receiving rosiglitazone add-on therapy (n=2220) compared with active control (n=2227); however, there was a significant difference in the incidence of congestive heart failure (secondary endpoint).
Patients who had failed metformin or sulfonylurea monotherapy were randomized to add-on rosiglitazone or active control (add-on metformin for those inadequately controlled on sulfonylurea or add-on sulfonylurea for those inadequately controlled on metformin).
Patients were treated to a target glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) of 7% or less.
Heart failure was reported in 61 patients receiving add-on rosiglitazone and 29 patients receiving active control.
In a retrospective analysis of 42 clinical trials (mean duration 6 months), rosiglitazone was associated with an increased risk of myocardial ischemia compared with combined active or placebo control (2% versus 1.
53%).
These events included angina pectoris, angina dyspnea, myocardial infarction, coronary thrombosis, myocardial ischemia, coronary artery disease, and coronary artery disorder.
There was an increased risk with combination insulin therapy and in patients receiving nitrates for known coronary heart disease.
Cardiovascular Events in Patients with NYHA Class I and II Heart Failure:An increased risk of cardiovascular events was observed in a 52-week trial in patients with NYHA Class I and II Heart Failure receiving rosiglitazone (n=110) compared with placebo (n=114).
These events included: cardiovascular deaths (5% vs 4%), worsening CHF (6% vs 4%), new or worsening edema (25% vs 9%), new or worsening dyspnea (26% vs 17%), increases in CHF medication (33% vs 18%), and cardiovascular hospitalization (19% vs 13%).
Edema: -Dose-related edema was reported in rosiglitazone clinical trials.
In patients receiving rosiglitazone 8 mg in combination with a sulfonylurea, the incidence of edema was 12.
4%.
In monotherapy trials, edema was reported in 4.
8% of patients receiving rosiglitazone (dose not specified).
Healthy volunteers receiving rosiglitazone 8 mg once daily for 8 weeks experienced a statistically significant increase in median plasma volume compared with placebo.
Concomitant Administration with Insulin:-Edema was reported with higher frequency in the rosiglitazone plus insulin combination trials (insulin, 5.
4%; and rosiglitazone with insulin 14.
7%).
Reports of new onset or exacerbation of congestive heart failure occurred at a rate of 1% for insulin alone, 2% (4 mg) and 3% (8 mg) for insulin in combination with rosiglitazone.
The coadministration of rosiglitazone and insulin is not recommended.
Glimepiride-Rosiglitazone: Common (1% to 10%): Edema, hypertension Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Congestive heart failureGlimepiride: Common (1% to 10%): Edema, hypertensionRosiglitazone: Common (1% to 10%): Edema, hypertensionUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Congestive heart failureFrequency not reported: Cardiovascular deaths, myocardial infarction, angina, angina pectoris, angina dyspnea, myocardial infarction, coronary thrombosis, myocardial ischemia, coronary artery disease, coronary artery disorder
Glimepiride-Rosiglitazone:Common (1% to 10%): NasopharyngitisRosiglitazone:Common (1% to 10%): Upper respiratory infectionPostmarketing reports: Pulmonary edema, pleural effusions
Glimepiride-Rosiglitazone: Common (1% to 10%): Headache, dizzinessGlimepiride:Common (1% to 10%): Headache, dizzinessRosiglitazone: Common (1% to 10%): HeadacheFrequency not reported: Stroke
The most commonly reported adverse reports included headache, hypoglycemia, and nasopharyngitis.
Glimepiride:Common (1% to 10%): NauseaRare (less than 0.
1%): Vomiting, gastrointestinal pain, diarrheaRosiglitazone:Common (1% to 10%): Diarrhea
Glimepiride:Rare (less than 0.
1%): Liver enzyme elevations, Frequency not reported: Liver function impairment, e.
g.
, cholestasis, jaundice, hepatitis, hepatic porphyria reactions and disulfiram-like reactionsRosiglitazone: Postmarketing reports: Hepatitis, hepatic enzyme elevations greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal, hepatic failure
Rosiglitazone: Postmarketing reports: Anaphylactic reaction
Glimepiride:Rare (less than 0.
1%): Allergic skin reactions, e.
g.
pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptionsFrequency not reported: Porphyria cutanea tarda, photosensitivity reactions, allergic vasculitis Rosiglitazone: Postmarketing reports: Rash, pruritus, urticaria, angioedema, Stevens-Johnson syndrome
Anemia was reported in 1.
9% of patients receiving rosiglitazone as monotherapy.
When taken in combination with metformin, a sulfonylurea, or metformin plus a sulfonylurea, the incidence of anemia was 7.
1%, 2.
3%, and 6.
7%, respectively.
Laboratory findings have shown dose-related decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit; mean decreases in hemoglobin were 1 g/dL and up to 3.
3% in hematocrit.
These changes primarily occurred during the first 3 months or following a dose increase.
They may be related to increased plasma volume.
Glimepiride:Frequency not reported: Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, pancytopeniaRosiglitazone: Common (1% to 10%): AnemiaFrequency not reported: Decrease in WBC counts
Glimepiride-Rosiglitazone: Common (1% to 10%): HypoglycemiaFrequency not reported: Weight gainGlimepiride: Common (1% to 10%): HypoglycemiaFrequency not reported: Hyponatremia, syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion, changes in serum lipidsRosiglitazone: Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Hypoglycemia
The mechanism of weight gain is unclear, although it probably is due to a combination of fluid retention and fat accumulation.
Dose-related weight gain was observed in trials with the combination glimepiride / rosiglitazone and rosiglitazone alone.
Mean weight gain in patients receiving the combination glimepiride 4 mg/rosiglitazone 4 mg was 2.
2 kg and 2.
9 kg for patients receiving glimepiride 4 mg/rosiglitazone 8 mg.
Glimepiride: Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Blurred visionRosiglitazone:Postmarketing reports: Diabetic macular edema with decreased visual acuity
Rosiglitazone:Common: Back pain, arthralgia, Frequency not reported: Fractures, bone mineral density decreases
Large long-term clinical trials have shown an increased incidence of bone fracture in patients receiving rosiglitazone in combination with sulfonylurea or metformin as rosiglitazone alone.
This increased incidence appeared after the first year and persisted.
The majority of fractures were observed in women and occurred in the upper arm, hand, and foot.
Glimepiride:Common (1% to 10%): AstheniaRosiglitazone:Common (1% to 10%): Injury
Body aches or pain
chills
cough
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
fever
headache
injury
loss of voice
nasal congestion
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness
Anxiety
blurred vision
chest pain or discomfort
cold sweats
coma
confusion
cool, pale skin
decreased urine output
depression
dilated neck veins
dizziness
extreme fatigue
fast heartbeat
increased hunger
irregular breathing
irregular heartbeat
nausea
nightmares
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or lower legs
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
weight gain
Abdominal or stomach pain or tenderness
agitation
back, leg, or stomach pains
bleeding gums
bloody, black, or tarry stools
blue lips and fingernails
coughing that sometimes produces a pink frothy sputum
dark urine
decreased appetite
difficult, fast, or noisy breathing
fluid-filled skin blisters
general body swelling
hostility
increased sweating
increased thirst
irritability
itching or skin rash
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
muscle pain or cramps
muscle twitching
nosebleeds
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
redness of the skin
seizures
sensitivity to the sun
skin thinness
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stupor
sweating
swollen glands
vomiting
yellow eyes or skin
Lack or loss of strength
Burning, stinging, itching, or redness of the skin not present before treatment
Diarrhea