Common side effects of Avandamet include: upper respiratory tract infection and diarrhea.
Other side effects include: anemia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
The most commonly reported adverse reports included upper respiratory tract infections, injury, and headache.
Metformin-Rosiglitazone:Very common ( or more): Hypoglycemia Common ( to ): Hypercholesterolemia, hyperlipidemiaUncommon ( to ): Weight gainRosiglitazone:Common ( to ): Hypoglycemia , hypercholesterolemia Uncommon ( to ): Weight gainFrequency not reported: Increases in waist and hip circumferenceMetformin:Common ( to ): Hypoglycemia Very rare (less than ): Lactic acidosis
The mechanism of weight gain is unclear, although it probably is due to a combination of fluid retention and fat accumulation.
In the ADOPT monotherapy trial, the median weight change with rosiglitazone at  years was plus  kg; with metformin it was a weight loss of  kg.
In drug-naive patients, no overall change in median weight was observed in clinical trials.
Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events:Overall data from rosiglitazone long-term trials including the RECORD, ADOPT, and DREAM trials (rosiglitazone n=; control n=) showed no difference in overall mortality or major adverse cardiovascular events; however, a meta-analysis of shorter-term trials suggests and increased risk for myocardial infarction with rosiglitazone compared with placebo.
The RECORD trial (Rosiglitazone evaluated for Cardiac Outcomes and Regulation of Glycemia in Diabetes; mean age  years;  male) revealed no significant difference in cardiovascular hospitalization or cardiovascular death (primary outcome) among patients with type  diabetes receiving rosiglitazone add-on therapy (n=) compared with active control (n=); however, there was a significant difference in the incidence of CHF (secondary endpoint).
In this trial, patients who had failed metformin or sulfonylurea monotherapy were randomized to add-on rosiglitazone or active control (add-on metformin for those inadequately controlled on sulfonylurea or add-on sulfonylurea for those inadequately controlled on metformin).
Patients were treated to a target glycosylated hemoglobin (HbAc) of  or less.
Heart failure was reported in  patients receiving add-on rosiglitazone and  patients receiving active control.
In a retrospective analysis of  clinical trials (mean duration  months), rosiglitazone was associated with an increased risk of myocardial ischemia compared with combined active or placebo control ( versus ).
These events included angina pectoris, angina dyspnea, myocardial infarction, coronary thrombosis, myocardial ischemia, coronary artery disease, and coronary artery disorder.
There was an increased risk with combination insulin therapy and in patients receiving nitrates for known coronary heart disease.
Cardiovascular Events in Patients with NYHA Class I and II Heart Failure:An increased risk of cardiovascular events was observed in a -week trial in patients with NYHA Class I and II Heart Failure receiving rosiglitazone (n=) compared with placebo (n=).
These events included: cardiovascular deaths ( vs ), worsening CHF ( vs ), new or worsening edema ( vs ), new or worsening dyspnea ( vs ), increases in CHF medication ( vs ), and cardiovascular hospitalization ( vs ).
Edema:-Dose-related edema has been reported in rosiglitazone clinical trials.
Healthy volunteers receiving rosiglitazone  mg once daily for  weeks experienced a statistically significant increase in median plasma volume compared with placebo.
-Among patients with inadequate glycemic control on diet and exercise (n=), edema was reported in  of patients starting on combination rosiglitazone/metformin,  starting on rosiglitazone alone, and  on metformin alone.
Concomitant Administration with Insulin:-Edema was reported with higher frequency in the rosiglitazone plus insulin combination trials (insulin, ; and rosiglitazone with insulin ).
Reports of new onset or exacerbation of CHF occurred at a rate of  for insulin alone,  ( mg) and  ( mg) for insulin in combination with rosiglitazone.
The coadministration of rosiglitazone and insulin is not recommended.
Common ( to ): Edema, hypertension Frequency not reported: Cardiovascular deaths, congestive heart failure (CHF), myocardial infarction, angina, angina pectoris, angina dyspnea, myocardial infarction, coronary thrombosis, myocardial ischemia, coronary artery disease, coronary artery disorder
Among patients inadequately controlled on rosiglitazone monotherapy switched to rosiglitazone/metformin combination treatment, anemia was reported in  (n=) of patients compared with  (n=) and  (n=) of patient receiving rosiglitazone or metformin monotherapy.
Lower pretreatment hemoglobin/hematocrit levels in patients receiving combination therapy may have contributed to the higher reporting rate.
Laboratory findings have shown dose-related decreases in hemoglobin and hematocrit in patients receiving rosiglitazone; mean decreases of  g/dL and up to  were seen in hemoglobin and hematocrit, respectively.
These changes primarily occurred during the first  months or following a dose increase.
They may be related to increased plasma volume.
Metformin-Rosiglitazone:Very common ( or more): Anemia (up to ) Metformin:Common ( to ): AnemiaVery rare (less than ): Subnormal vitamin B levelsRosiglitazone:Common ( to ): AnemiaFrequency not reported: Decrease in WBC counts
Very common ( or more): Nausea/vomiting , diarrhea  Common ( to ): Dyspepsia, abdominal pain, loose stools, constipation, flatulence, gastritisUncommon ( to ): Anorexiaside effects have included nausea, anorexia, metallic taste, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, and abdominal pain.
Diarrhea has been reported by  of patients in clinical trials.
Very common ( or more): Upper respiratory tract infection ( to )Common ( to ): Nasopharyngitis, sinusitis, bronchitis, coughing, pharyngitisRosiglitazone:Frequency not reported: DyspneaPostmarketing reports: Pulmonary edema, pleural effusions
Rosiglitazone:Postmarketing reports: Anaphylactic reaction, urticaria, angioedema
Rosiglitazone:Postmarketing reports: Diabetic macular edema with decreased visual acuity
Large long-term rosiglitazone clinical trials have shown an increased incidence of bone fracture in patients receiving rosiglitazone both alone and in combination with sulfonylureas or metformin.
This increased incidence appeared after the first year and persisted.
The majority of fractures were observed in women and occurred in the upper arm, hand, and foot.
Very common: ( or more): Arthralgia Common ( to ): Back pain, arthritisFrequency not reported: Fractures
Metformin:Very rare (less than ): Mild erythemaRosiglitazone: Postmarketing reports: Rash, pruritus, urticaria, angioedema, Stevens-Johnson syndrome
Frequency not reported: Resumption of ovulation in premenopausal, anovulatory women, hormonal imbalance
Common ( to ): Urinary tract infection
Rosiglitazone:Uncommon ( to ): Hyperbilirubinemia, ALT elevationsPostmarketing reports: Hepatitis, hepatic enzyme elevations greater than  times the upper limit of normal, hepatic failure
Common ( to ): Viral infection
Very common ( or more): Headaches Common ( to ): DizzinessMetformin:Common ( to ): Metallic tasteRosiglitazone:Frequency not reported: Stroke
Very common ( or more): Injury  Common ( to ): Fatigue, pain
Pale skin
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Anxiety
blurred vision
chest pain or discomfort
chills
cold sweats
coma
confusion
cool, pale skin
depression
dilated neck veins
dizziness
extreme fatigue
fast heartbeat
headache
increased hunger
irregular breathing
irregular heartbeat
nausea
nightmares
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or lower legs
weight gain
Abdominal or stomach discomfort
decreased appetite
diarrhea
fast, shallow breathing
general feeling of discomfort
muscle pain or cramping
sleepiness
Change in vision
dark urine
decreased urine output
hives or welts, itching, or skin rash
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
redness of the skin
stomach pain
sweating
vomiting
Body aches or pain
cough, fever, sneezing, or sore throat
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
loss of voice
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
stuffy or runny nose
Back pain
cold or flu-like symptoms
difficulty with moving
pain in the joints