More frequent side effects include: glycosuria, hematuria, increased serum aspartate aminotransferase, and increased serum lipase.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
The most common side effects reported in patients with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection and compensated liver disease during clinical trials have included headache, fatigue, dizziness, and nausea.
One percent of patients discontinued therapy due to side effects or laboratory abnormalities (compared to  of lamivudine-treated patients).
The most common side effects reported in patients with chronic HBV infection and evidence of hepatic decompensation (n=) through Week  of a study have included peripheral edema, ascites, pyrexia, hepatic encephalopathy, and upper respiratory infection.
The cumulative death rate was  with entecavir (the active ingredient contained in Baraclude) during the first  weeks of therapy (compared to  with adefovir).
The majority of deaths were due to liver-related causes such as hepatic failure, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatorenal syndrome, and upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage.
Through Week , up to  of patients discontinued this drug due to a side effect.
Very common ( or more): Elevated ALT (up to ), posttreatment exacerbation of hepatitis/ALT flare (up to ), deaths due to liver-related causes (, hepatic failure, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatorenal syndrome, upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage; ), hepatic encephalopathy Common ( to ): On-treatment exacerbation of hepatitis/ALT flaresFrequency not reported: Elevated AST, lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis (including fatal cases), severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B (after discontinuation of therapy)Postmarketing reports: Increased transaminases
Elevated ALT (greater than  times ULN and greater than  times baseline: up to ; greater than  times ULN: up to ; greater than  times baseline: up to ; greater than  times baseline [with total bilirubin greater than  times ULN and greater than  times baseline]: up to ) and total bilirubin (greater than  times ULN; up to ) have been reported.
Posttreatment exacerbations of hepatitis or ALT flare, as defined by ALT greater than  times ULN and greater than  times baseline, have been reported in patients who discontinued therapy at or after  weeks after achieving a defined treatment response (nucleoside-naive HBeAg-positive: ; nucleoside-naive HBeAg-negative: ; lamivudine-refractory: ).
The median time to exacerbation was  to  weeks.
The rate may be higher in patients who discontinue this drug without regard to treatment response.
Hepatic encephalopathy and deaths due to liver-related causes (such as hepatic failure, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatorenal syndrome, and upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage) were reported in patients with hepatic decompensation.
Decreased albumin (less than  g/dL) and platelets (less than ,/mm) were reported in  and  of patients with hepatic decompensation, respectively.
Very common ( or more): Decreased albumin (up to ), decreased platelets (up to )
Very common ( or more): Elevated lipase (up to )Common ( to ): Diarrhea, dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting, elevated amylaseFrequency not reported: Abdominal pain (unspecified), upper abdominal pain, upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage
Elevated lipase (greater than  times baseline: up to ; at least  times upper limit of normal [ULN]: ) and amylase (greater than  times baseline: ) have been reported.
Very common ( or more): Peripheral edema , ascites , pyrexia/fever Common ( to ): FatigueFrequency not reported: Accidental injury, influenza
Peripheral edema, ascites, and pyrexia were reported in patients with hepatic decompensation.
Very common ( or more): Hepatocellular carcinoma (up to )Frequency not reported: Malignant neoplasms
Hepatocellular carcinoma was reported in patients with hepatic decompensation.
Malignant neoplasms, occurring at a rate of  per  patient-years, have been reported.
Confirmed creatinine increase of at least  mg/dL was reported in up to  of patients with compensated liver disease.
Confirmed increase in serum creatinine of  mg/dL  and renal failure were reported in patients with hepatic decompensation.
Very common ( or more): Increased serum creatinine (up to )Uncommon ( to ): Renal failure
Very common ( or more): Upper respiratory infection Frequency not reported: Cough, nasopharyngitis, rhinitis
Upper respiratory infection was reported in patients with hepatic decompensation.
Common ( to ): Elevated fasting hyperglycemia, decreased blood bicarbonateFrequency not reported: Elevated alkaline phosphatasePostmarketing reports: Lactic acidosis
Elevated fasting hyperglycemia (greater than  mg/dL) was reported in up to  of patients.
Decreased blood bicarbonate was reported in patients with hepatic decompensation.
Lactic acidosis was often associated with hepatic decompensation, other serious medical conditions, or drug exposures.
Common ( to ): Hematuria, glycosuriaFrequency not reported: Dysuria
Grade  to  hematuria  and glycosuria  were reported.
Common ( to ): Headache, dizziness, somnolence
Common ( to ): Insomnia
Postmarketing reports: Anaphylactoid reaction
Frequency not reported: Erythema, photosensitivity with lethargyPostmarketing reports: Rash, alopecia
Frequency not reported: Arthralgia, myalgia, back pain
Abdominal or stomach discomfort
cough
decreased appetite
diarrhea
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
fast, shallow breathing
general feeling of discomfort
hives, itching, or rash
muscle pain or cramping
nausea
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
right upper abdominal or stomach pain and fullness
sleepiness
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
Acid or sour stomach
belching
headache
heartburn
indigestion
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
Trouble sleeping
Unusual drowsiness
Hair loss
thinning of the hair