Aiding in urination and preventing the growth of bacteria in the urinary tract.
It has also been used in women as a menstrual remedy.
It may also be used as an astringent and may have other uses.
Check with your pharmacist for more details regarding the particular brand you use.
Bearberry is an herbal product.
It works by killing bacteria in the urinary tract.
Contact your doctor or health care provider right away if any of these apply to you.
Some medical conditions may interact with bearberry.
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you have any medical conditions, especially if any of the following apply to you:
Some MEDICINES MAY INTERACT with bearberry.
However, no specific interactions are known at this time.
This may not be a complete list of all interactions that may occur.
Ask your health care provider if bearberry may interact with other medicines that you take.
Check with your health care provider before you start, stop, or change the dose of any medicine.
Use bearberry as directed by your doctor.
Check the label on the medicine for exact dosing instructions.
Ask your health care provider any questions you may have about how to use bearberry.
All medicines may cause side effects, but many people have no, or minor, side effects.
Check with your doctor if any of these most COMMON side effects persist or become bothersome:
Green urine; nausea; stomach discomfort.
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; itching; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, or tongue); dizziness; irregular heartbeat; muscle cramps; ringing in the ears; seizures; slightly bluish, grayish, slate-like, or dark purple discoloration of the skin; vomiting.
This is not a complete list of all side effects that may occur.
If you have questions about side effects, contact your health care provider.
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects.
To report side effects to the appropriate agency, please read the Guide to Reporting Problems to FDA.
Contact 1-800-222-1222 (the American Association of Poison Control Centers), your local poison control center, or emergency room immediately.
Symptoms may include loss of consciousness; ringing in the ears; seizures; vomiting.
Store at room temperature away from heat, moisture, and light unless otherwise directed on the package label.
Do not store in the bathroom.
Most herbal products are not in childproof containers.
Keep bearberry out of the reach of children and away from pets.
This information should not be used to decide whether or not to take bearberry or any other medicine.
Only your health care provider has the knowledge and training to decide which medicines are right for you.
This information does not endorse any medicine as safe, effective, or approved for treating any patient or health condition.
This is only a brief summary of general information about bearberry.
It does NOT include all information about the possible uses, directions, warnings, precautions, interactions, adverse effects, or risks that may apply to bearberry.
This information is not specific medical advice and does not replace information you receive from your health care provider.
You must talk with your healthcare provider for complete information about the risks and benefits of using bearberry.
you are allergic to any ingredient in bearberry
you have stomach irritation or kidney disease
you are pregnant or breast-feeding
if you are planning to become pregnant
if you are taking any prescription or nonprescription medicine, herbal preparation, or dietary supplement
if you have allergies to medicines, foods, or other substances
Dosing depends on the use and the source of the product.
Use as directed on the package, unless instructed otherwise by your doctor.
If you miss taking a dose of bearberry for 1 or more days, there is no cause for concern.
If your doctor recommended that you take it, try to remember your dose every day.
Your urine may turn a greenish color while you are taking bearberry.
This is normal and should not be cause for alarm.
If your doctor orders a urine sample while you are taking bearberry, be sure to tell your doctor and the lab technicians why your urine may be green.
Check with your doctor before you begin taking any new medicine, either prescription or over-the-counter, including vitamin C (ascorbic acid).
This product has not been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as safe and effective for any medical condition.
The long-term safety of herbal products is not known.
Before using any alternative medicine, talk with your doctor or pharmacist.
Use bearberry with caution in CHILDREN.
PREGNANCY and BREAST-FEEDING: Do not use this product if you are pregnant.
Do not breast-feed while you are taking this product.
If you have any questions about bearberry, please talk with your doctor, pharmacist, or other health care provider.
Bearberry is to be used only by the patient for whom it is prescribed.
Do not share it with other people.
If your symptoms do not improve or if they become worse, check with your doctor.
Check with your pharmacist about how to dispose of unused medicine.