Cardiovascular complications of diuretic therapy include orthostatic hypotension secondary to intravascular volume depletion.
This has resulted in syncope and, in some patients with glaucoma, temporary loss of vision.
Rare cases of cerebrovascular accident associated with thiazide-induced diuresis have been reported.
Dermatologic reactions may indicate hypersensitivity to the drug.
Erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis (including toxic epidermal necrolysis), and alopecia have been reported in rare cases.
A prospective study of 34 patients who received oral thiazide diuretics for 14 years without interruption revealed an increased mean fasting blood glucose level after treatment.
Withdrawal of thiazide therapy for 7 months in 10 of the patients resulted in mean reductions of 10% in fasting blood glucose and 25% in the 2-hour glucose tolerance test values.
A control group was not reported.
Endocrinologic changes associated with bendroflumethiazide, as with other thiazide diuretic agents, include decreased glucose tolerance and a potentially deleterious effect on the lipid profile.
This may be important in some patients with or who are at risk for diabetes or coronary artery disease.
A retrospective case-controlled drug surveillance study has revealed the relative risk of acute cholecystitis associated with the use of a thiazide diuretic is 2.
0.
The suspected explanation for this association is the potentially deleterious effect thiazides have on the serum lipid profile.
Bendroflumethiazide-induced hypercholesterolemia or hypertriglyceridemia may enhance the formation of some types of gallstones.
Gastrointestinal problems include anorexia, gastric irritation, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, or abdominal pain in approximately 5% of patients.
Thiazide diuretics have been associated with acute cholecystitis, intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice and rare cases of pancreatitis.
Hematologic side effects are rare.
Rare cases of immune-complex hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, and thrombocytopenia have been associated with thiazide diuretics.
Hypersensitivity reactions usually involve the skin (cutaneous vasculitis, urticaria, rash, purpura), but may involve the gastrointestinal system (nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea), the genitourinary system (interstitial nephritis), and the respiratory system (acute noncardiogenic pulmonary edema, pneumonitis).
Thiazide diuretics may induce phototoxic dermatitis.
Thiazides may induce allergic reactions in patients who are allergic to sulfonamides.
Metabolic changes associated with bendroflumethiazide, as with other thiazide diuretics, are relatively common, especially when daily doses greater than 100 mg are used.
Mild hypokalemia (decrease of 0.
5 mEq/L) occurs in up to 50%, and may predispose patients to cardiac arrhythmias.
Metabolic alkalosis, hyponatremia, hypomagnesemia, hypophosphatemia, hypercalcemia, hyperglycemia, hypercholesterolemia, and hyperuricemia are also relatively common.
The electrolyte and intravascular fluid shifts that may occur during bendroflumethiazide diuresis can provoke hepatic encephalopathy in patients with hepatic cirrhosis.
This may be pertinent due to this patient's liver disease.
Hyperuricemia may be an important consideration in patients with a history of gout.
Hypophosphatemia and low serum magnesium concentrations may occur, but are usually clinically insignificant except in malnourished patients.
Rare cases of hypercalcemia and milk-alkali syndrome (hypercalcemia, metabolic alkalosis, and renal insufficiency) have been associated with thiazide diuretics.
Musculoskeletal cramping or spasm are occasionally reported during bendroflumethiazide diuresis.
Side effects related to the nervous system include mild, transient dizziness, fatigue, or headache.
New or worsened renal insufficiency associated with bendroflumethiazide therapy is a probable sign of intravascular volume depletion, and serves as a signal to reduce or withhold therapy.
Rare cases of allergic interstitial nephritis have been associated with some thiazide diuretics.