Common side effects of Benzaclin include: xeroderma.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Check with your doctor if any of these most COMMON side effects persist or become bothersome:
Mild burning, dryness, itching, peeling, redness, or stinging of the skin.
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; itching; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, throat, or tongue); bloody or watery stools; severe burning, dryness, itching, peeling, redness, stinging, or swelling of the skin; severe or persistent diarrhea; stomach cramps or pain.
Dermatologic side effects have included dry skin , pruritus , peeling , erythema , and sunburn  and reactions at the application site .
Application site reactions including burning, stinging, and pruritus are frequently reported following topical application of the combination of  benzoyl peroxide and  clindamycin.
Pseudomembranous colitis may be revealed upon endoscopic examination; stool cultures for Clostridium difficile, and stool assays for Clostridium difficile toxin may be helpful diagnostically.
Gastrointestinal side effects have been reported with the use of topical clindamycin.
Diarrhea, bloody diarrhea, and colitis, including pseudomembranous colitis, have occurred.
Colitis usually manifests as severe persistent diarrhea, severe abdominal cramps, and passage of blood and mucous.
Some cases of colitis have been fatal.
Due to the possible serious nature of pseudomembranous colitis, patients should be advised to discontinue clindamycin therapy and consult a physician if diarrhea occurs.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included anaphylaxis and allergic reactions leading to hospitalization during postmarketing experience.
A -year-old boy developed reproducible ringing in his right ear and hearing loss while using topical clindamycin and after discontinuing use.
He underwent a complete physical exam and labs which failed to find a cause for his symptoms.
The patient was restarted on benzoyl peroxide / clindamycin topical and the ringing in his ear increased.
He was told to stop all medications and was started on methylprednisolone.
The tinnitus decreased in  to  days with no improvement in the hearing deficit.
After the third time he was restarted on benzoyl peroxide/clindamycin gel, the tinnitus returned at an increased level together with right-sided headaches within  to  days.
The patient again stopped using the benzoyl peroxide and clindamycin gel and the tinnitus returned to a low level over  to  days.
It is believed that the clindamycin component played a part in this patient's tinnitus and hearing loss.
Other side effects have included one case of ringing in the ear and partial hearing loss believed to be caused by clindamycin.