Common side effects of Biaxin include: dysgeusia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
The most common side effects were abdominal pain/discomfort, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and dysgeusia/taste perversion.
In immunocompromised patients treated with higher doses of this drug (1 to 2 g/day), the most common side effects were nausea, vomiting, taste perversion, abdominal pain, diarrhea, rash, flatulence, headache, constipation, hearing disturbance, increased AST, and increased ALT.
Deafness was reported mainly in elderly women and was usually reversible.
Very common (10% or more): Dysgeusia/taste perversion (up to 16%)Common (1% to 10%): Headache, dizzinessUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Loss of consciousness, dyskinesia, somnolence, hearing impaired, tinnitus, tremor, vertigoFrequency not reported: New onset of symptoms of myasthenic syndrome, exacerbation of symptoms of myasthenia gravis, hearing disturbance, muzzinessPostmarketing reports: Convulsions, ageusia, parosmia/smell perversion, anosmia, paresthesia, deafness, hyperkinesia
Very common (10% or more): Nausea (up to 12.
3%)Common (1% to 10%): Diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal pain/discomfort, dyspepsia/heartburn, flatulence, oral candidiasis/moniliasis, constipationUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Glossitis, stomatitis, esophagitis, gastroesophageal reflux disease, gastritis, proctalgia, abdominal distension, dry mouth, eructation, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, bleeding gums, bloodstained stoolsFrequency not reported: Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea (ranging from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis), pancreatitisPostmarketing reports: Acute pancreatitis, tongue discoloration, tooth discoloration, pseudomembranous colitis, enteritis
The incidence of dry mouth was similar for patients treated with 1 to 2 g/day, but was generally about 3 to 4 times as frequent for those treated with 4 g/day.
Severity of pseudomembranous colitis has ranged from mild to life-threatening.
Tooth discoloration was usually reversible with professional dental cleaning after the drug was stopped.
These side effects are specific to the IV formulation.
Very common (10% or more): Injection site phlebitisCommon (1% to 10%): Injection site pain, injection site inflammation, tenderness at site of administrationFrequency not reported: Vessel puncture site pain
Common (1% to 10%): Elevated AST, elevated ALT, abnormal liver function testUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Cholestasis, hepatitis (symptoms included anorexia, jaundice, dark urine, pruritus, tender abdomen), increased blood bilirubin, elevated GGT, elevated direct bilirubin, hepatic dysfunction (including increased liver enzymes), hepatitis and cholestasis with or without jaundiceFrequency not reported: Hepatocellular and/or cholestatic hepatitis (with or without jaundice), drug-induced hepatotoxicity, fulminant hepatic failurePostmarketing reports: Hepatic failure, hepatocellular jaundice, adverse reactions related to hepatic dysfunction, abnormal hepatic function, liver abnormalities
Elevated AST (greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal [5 x ULN]) and ALT (greater than 5 x ULN) were reported in up to 4% and up to 3% of patients, respectively.
Hepatic dysfunction (sometimes severe and usually reversible), including increased liver enzymes, and hepatocellular and/or cholestatic hepatitis, with or without jaundice have been reported.
In some instances, hepatic failure with fatal outcome has been reported and generally has been associated with serious underlying diseases (e.
g.
, preexisting liver disease) and/or concomitant medications (e.
g.
, hepatotoxic agents).
Drug-induced hepatotoxicity was rare and typically associated with higher doses (1 to 2 g/day) and high serum drug levels.
The enzyme elevation pattern was usually cholestatic with minimal elevations of AST and ALT.
Common (1% to 10%): Anaphylactoid reactionUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Hypersensitivity, allergic reactionsPostmarketing reports: Anaphylactic reaction, angioedema
Allergic reactions have ranged from urticaria and mild skin eruptions to rare cases of anaphylaxis.
A 92-year-old female admitted for heart failure and a right upper lobe infiltrate was started on clarithromycin 500 mg.
The following day, this drug was discontinued and IV antibiotics were initiated due to persisting fever.
She received only 1 dose of this drug.
On day 6 of the hospitalization, the patient was afebrile, IV antibiotics were stopped, and this drug was again started.
Two hours after the dose, the patient developed swelling in her lips, jaw, tongue, mouth, and face.
The patient was given diphenhydramine and the clarithromycin was discontinued.
She was discharged the following day.
Common (1% to 10%): Vasodilation, phlebitisUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): ECG QT prolonged, cardiac arrest, atrial fibrillation, extrasystoles, palpitationsRare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): ArrhythmiaFrequency not reported: QT interval prolongationPostmarketing reports: Ventricular arrhythmia, ventricular tachycardia, torsades de pointes, hemorrhage
Decreased WBC (less than 1 x 10[9]/L), platelet count (less than 50 x 10[9]/L), and hemoglobin (less than 8 g/dL) were reported in up to 4%, up to 4%, and 3% of patients, respectively.
Common (1% to 10%): Decreased WBC, decreased platelet count, decreased hemoglobinUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocythemia, eosinophilia, increased prothrombin timeFrequency not reported: Granulocytopenia, reduction in prothrombin timePostmarketing reports: Thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, prolonged prothrombin time, decreased WBC count, increased INR
Common (1% to 10%): Rash, hyperhidrosis, pruritusUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Urticaria, dermatitis bullous, maculopapular rash, cellulitis, pustular rash (non-urticarial), stained fingernailsPostmarketing reports: Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), Henoch-Schonlein purpura, acne, erysipelas, erythrasma
Common (1% to 10%): Infection, candidiasis, pyrexia/fever, astheniaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Malaise, chest pain, chills, fatigue, thirst, abnormal albumin globulin ratio, body aches and pains, flushing, accidental injury, flu syndromePostmarketing reports: Otitis media, extended-release tablets in the stool, colchicine toxicity
Many reports of extended-release tablets in the stool occurred in patients with anatomic (including ileostomy or colostomy) or functional gastrointestinal disorders with shortened gastrointestinal transit times.
In several reports, tablet residues occurred in the context of diarrhea.
Colchicine toxicity has been reported with concomitant use of this drug and colchicine, especially in the elderly; some occurred in patients with renal dysfunction.
Death occurred in some such patients.
The incidence of insomnia was similar for patients treated with 1 to 2 g/day, but was generally about 3 to 4 times as frequent for those treated with 4 g/day.
Psychotic disorder, confusional state, depersonalization, depression, disorientation, manic behavior, hallucination, abnormal behavior, and/or abnormal dreams usually resolved after the drug was stopped.
Common (1% to 10%): InsomniaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Anxiety, nervousness, screaming, depression, sleep disturbanceFrequency not reported: Behavioral changes, nightmares, psychosisPostmarketing reports: Psychotic disorder, confusional state, depersonalization, disorientation, hallucination, depression, manic behavior, abnormal behavior, abnormal dreams
Increased alkaline phosphatase (greater than 5 x ULN) was reported in up to 2% of patients.
Hypoglycemia has been reported in patients receiving oral hypoglycemic agents or insulin.
Common (1% to 10%): Increased alkaline phosphataseUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Anorexia, decreased appetite, increased blood LDHPostmarketing reports: Hypoglycemia
The incidence of dyspnea was similar for patients treated with 1 to 2 g/day, but was generally about 3 to 4 times as frequent for those treated with 4 g/day.
Common (1% to 10%): Dyspnea, rhinitis, increased cough, pharyngitis, asthmaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Epistaxis, pulmonary embolismFrequency not reported: Laryngismus
Common (1% to 10%): ConjunctivitisUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): PhotophobiaVery rare (less than 0.
01%): UveitisFrequency not reported: Corneal opacities
Uveitis was reported primarily in patients treated with concomitant rifabutin; most cases were reversible.
A case of corneal opacities was reported in a patient with AIDS and Mycobacterium avium complex bacteremia.
The patient's ocular signs and symptoms resolved upon substitution with azithromycin.
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Elevated BUN, elevated serum creatinine, increased blood urea, increased blood creatinineFrequency not reported: Acute renal failurePostmarketing reports: Interstitial nephritis, renal failure
Elevated BUN (greater than 50 mg/dL) was reported in less than 1% of patients.
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Myalgia, muscle spasms, nuchal rigidity, musculoskeletal stiffness, arthralgia, back painPostmarketing reports: Myopathy, rhabdomyolysis
In some cases of rhabdomyolysis, this drug was coadministered with statins, fibrates, colchicine, or allopurinol.
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Vaginal infectionPostmarketing reports: Abnormal urine color (associated with hepatic failure), dysuria
Rare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): Leukocytoclastic vasculitis
Cough
fever or chills
hoarseness
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
Abdominal or stomach tenderness
fever with or without chills
nausea and vomiting
severe abdominal or stomach cramps and pain
shortness of breath
skin rash and itching
unusual bleeding or bruising
watery and severe diarrhea, which may also be bloody
yellow eyes or skin
Abdominal or stomach pain
anxiety
black, tarry stools
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
blurred vision
chest pain or discomfort
clay-colored stools
confusion about identity, place, and time
cool, pale skin
dark urine
depression
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fainting
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
feeling of unreality
feeling that others are watching you or controlling your behavior
feeling that others can hear your thoughts
feeling, seeing, or hearing things that are not there
hives
increased hunger
irregular heartbeat
joint or muscle pain
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
nightmares
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
recurrent fainting
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
redness, swelling, or soreness of the tongue
seizures
sense of detachment from self or body
severe mood or mental changes
shakiness
slow heartbeat
slurred speech
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
sudden death
swollen glands
tightness in the chest
unpleasant breath odor
unusual behavior
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood
wheezing
Acid or sour stomach
belching
bloated or full feeling
change in sensation of taste
diarrhea (mild)
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
headache
heartburn
indigestion
passing gas
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
Alterations of sense of smell
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
hearing loss
lightheadedness
mental depression
mood or mental changes
sensation of spinning
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
skin eruptions
sleeplessness
sore mouth or tongue
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
taste loss
tongue discoloration
tooth discoloration
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep
weight loss