Side effects varied according to dose and duration of praziquantel (the active ingredient contained in Biltricide) therapy.
Side effects depended on parasite species, extent of infestation, infection duration, and parasite location in the body.
Side effects occurred earlier and were more frequent and/or serious in patients with severe infestation.
Often, it was unclear if praziquantel, an endogenous reaction to parasites dying from the drug, or symptoms of the infestation caused the reported side effects.
Side effects included malaise, headache, dizziness, abdominal discomfort (with or without nausea), rise in temperature, and urticaria; generally in order of severity.
Such side effects were more frequent and/or serious in patients with heavy worm burden.
The inflammatory reaction produced by antigenic substances released from dying cysts frequently involved increased intracranial pressure, seizures, severe headaches, nausea, and vomiting.
In areas where Taenia solium was endemic, these reactions may occur as the result of undiagnosed cysticercosis in patients being treated for other parasitic infections.
The duration of the reaction differs among patients.
Delayed reactions have been reported.
Very common (10% or more): Headache, dizzinessCommon (1% to 10%): Vertigo, somnolence (including drowsiness)Very rare (less than 0.
01%): SeizuresFrequency not reported: Cerebral inflammatory reactionPostmarketing reports: Convulsion, somnolence, vertigo
Very common (10% or more): Gastrointestinal and abdominal pains, nausea, vomitingCommon (1% to 10%): DiarrheaFrequency not reported: Abdominal discomfort (with or without nausea), gaggingPostmarketing reports: Abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea, vomiting
A syndrome of severe abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea was reported less often during schistosomiasis therapy.
Gagging and vomiting have been reported due to the bitter taste of the tablets.
Very common (10% or more): FatigueCommon (1% to 10%): Feeling unwell (asthenia, malaise), feverFrequency not reported: Rise in temperature, transient edemaVery rare (less than 0.
01%): PolyserositisPostmarketing reports: Asthenia, fatigue
A 13-year-old male developed Mazzotti reaction after treatment with ivermectin, praziquantel (the active ingredient contained in Biltricide)  and albendazole for presumptive schistosomiasis and strongyloidiasis.
Six days after receiving standard empiric therapy, he developed epigastric pain, vomiting, and urticaria.
This progressed in 4 hours and included fever, general myalgia, and edema of the face, lower extremities, and penis accompanied by urticaria of the arms, legs, and trunk.
He was diagnosed with a Mazzotti reaction and treated with methylprednisolone; symptoms subsided within 12 hours.
Very common (10% or more): UrticariaCommon (1% to 10%): RashVery rare (less than 0.
01%): PruritusFrequency not reported: Mazzotti-like reactionPostmarketing reports: Pruritus, rash
Common (1% to 10%)/Postmarketing reports: Anorexia
Common (1% to 10%)/Postmarketing reports: MyalgiaFrequency not reported: Musculoskeletal aches and fatigue
Frequency not reported: Mild increases in liver enzymes
Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Unspecified arrhythmiasPostmarketing reports: Arrhythmia (including bradycardia, ectopic rhythms, ventricular fibrillation, atrioventricular blocks)
Postmarketing reports: Allergic reaction (generalized hypersensitivity, including polyserositis)
Postmarketing reports: Eosinophilia
Abdominal or stomach discomfort with or without nausea
abdominal or stomach pain
black, tarry stools
bloody diarrhea
chest pain or discomfort
chills
convulsions
cough
dizziness
fainting
fast, slow, or irregular heartbeat
fever
hives
hoarseness
irritation
itching
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
lightheadedness, dizziness, or fainting
painful or difficult urination
rash
redness of the skin
severe abdominal or stomach pain
shortness of breath
slow or irregular heartbeat
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
sweating
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, hands, or feet
swollen glands
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing or swallowing
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
wheezing
Drowsiness
increased sweating
general feeling of discomfort or illness
nausea or vomiting
Skin rash, hives, or itching
Difficulty with moving
dizziness or lightheadedness
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
headache
hives or welts
joint pain
lack or loss of strength
loss of appetite
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pains or stiffness
redness of the skin
sensation of spinning
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
swollen joints
weight loss