Commonly reported side effects of calcitonin include: nausea, vomiting, and inflammation at injection site.
Other side effects include: diarrhea, flushing of face and neck, flushing of hands and feet, gastrointestinal symptoms, stomach pain, flushing, irritation at injection site, pain at injection site, and swelling at injection site.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Side effects are often mild, but commonly occur in about  of patients and may occur in up to .
About one third of treated patients discontinue the drug due to side effects.
Diminished adverse effects occur with the subcutaneous route versus the intramuscular route.
After injection, side effects generally occur within an hour.
Calcitonin is a large, manufactured peptide.
A certain percentage of what is produced during manufacturing may be "error peptides" which may increase or change the side effects.
Nausea is the most common symptom and occurs in about  to  of patients.
Vomiting, diarrhea, anorexia, and abdominal discomfort are also common effects of calcitonin.
A metallic taste is reported.
A -year-old with Paget's disease was treated with  intl units of synthetic salmon calcitonin five times a week.
After each injection she experienced nausea, vomiting, and severe shivering.
Administration of the HT antagonist pizotifen eliminated the side effects.
Cardiovascular side effects including tingling of the hands and flushing of the palms, soles, face, or ears are common.
A feeling of pressure in the chest may occur.
Central nervous system side effects of shivering, chills, paresthesias, dizziness, headache, vertigo, migraine, neuralgia, agitation and tremor have been reported.
Tetany has been reported rarely.
Within  minutes of a subcutaneous injection of  intl units of synthetic salmon calcitonin, a -year-old woman developed widespread fine tremor which lasted an hour.
The reaction could be repeated with a different batch of the drug but not with placebo.
Local side effects including pain, wheals, and erythema at the injection site have been reported.
Local reactions are less likely after injection of synthetic human calcitonin than with the synthetic salmon preparation.
Respiratory side effects of shortness of breath and nasal congestion occur infrequently.
Rhinorrhea, mild nose bleeds, and nasal dryness may occur with nasal administration.
Antibodies may develop to extracted or synthetic calcitonin products after chronic use.
The time to antibody development is variable and patient dependent.
Antibodies have been reported with the salmon preparation, and rarely to the human product.
Antibody development will render a patient resistant to therapy.
A study of  postmenopausal women on calcitonin for osteoporosis for  months showed that about seven hours after administration of  intl units (intramuscularly) of synthetic salmon calcitonin a mild metabolic acidosis developed.
Hyperglycemia has been reported as a metabolic side effect in patients with Paget's disease.
Impaired glucose tolerance may occur in healthy volunteers.
Diabetics may lose control of blood sugar.
Metabolic acidosis and hypocalcemia may occur.
Transient increases in water and sodium excretion may occur.
Renal side effects including polyuria and urinary frequency may occur in  to  of patients.
Abnormal urinary sediment (but not proteinuria or reduced creatinine clearance) is a rare side effect.
Dermatologic side effects including various rashes, urticaria, and flushing and itching of the palmar and plantar surfaces have been reported.
Flushing is a common effect.
A single case of disseminated granuloma annulare was temporarily related to synthetic salmon calcitonin use.
It is a rare effect.
A -year-old woman received a total of  intl units of intranasal synthetic salmon calcitonin for treatment of osteoporosis.
Within one month she developed disseminated granuloma annulare (DGA).
The calcitonin was continued for one month after symptoms of DGA were recognized.
Lesions did not disappear immediately but continued for  months.
The relationship was temporal but could not be proved as causal.
A -year-old woman being treated for osteoporosis with  intl units of salmon calcitonin spray per nostril per day developed a progressive bilateral deformation of the alar nasal cartilages.
Two depresses, symmetric areas appeared after  months.
There was nasal septum deformation.
The relationship was temporal but could not be proven as causal.
Musculoskeletal side effects including a bilateral deformation of the alar nasal cartilages have been rarely reported after intranasal use.
Musculoskeletal weakness may occur.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included a few cases of serious allergic-type reactions (, bronchospasm, swelling of the tongue or throat, anaphylactic shock), including very rare reports of death attributed to anaphylaxis.
nasal spray
Blurred vision
chills or fever
cough
difficulty with breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
frequent urination
headache
joint pain
muscle aches and pains
muscle cramps in the hands, arms, feet, legs, or face
nausea or vomiting
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
seizures
skin rash or itching
slow or fast heartbeat
sweating
swelling of the hands, ankles, feet, or lower legs
tightness in the chest
tingling of the hands or feet
trembling or shaking of the legs, arms, hands or feet
trouble sleeping
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight gain or loss
Red streaks on the skin
swelling, tenderness, or pain at the injection site
Feeling of warmth
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
Abdominal or stomach pain
changes in vision
diarrhea
pain in the eyes
poor appetite
waking to urinate at night