Common side effects of Cardura include: dizziness, fatigue, vertigo, hypertension, symptomatic orthostatic hypotension, malaise, and orthostatic effect.
Other side effects include: syncope, drowsiness, and edema.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking doxazosin, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Doxazosin (the active ingredient contained in Cardura) is generally well-tolerated.
Side effects are usually mild to moderate in intensity and may resolve with continued therapy.
Like other alpha-blockers, doxazosin (the active ingredient contained in Cardura) has been associated with significant decreases in total and LDL serum cholesterol and serum triglycerides.
This beneficial effect on the lipid profile may be important in some patients with ischemic heart disease.
Data from ALLHAT (which led to the discontinuation of the doxazosin-treatment arm of the study) indicated that users of doxazosin had  more cardiovascular events and were twice as likely to be hospitalized for congestive heart failure compared to users of chlorthalidone.
However, these two drugs were found to be similarly effective in preventing heart attacks and in reducing the risk of death from all causes.
Cardiovascular side effects are the most common.
Dizziness has been reported in  to  of patients and is most likely to occur  to  hours after dosing.
It may be minimized by administration of the drug at bedtime, particularly at the beginning of therapy.
Rarely, syncope has been associated with doxazosin, and appears to be more likely in patients greater than  years old.
Peripheral edema, palpitations, chest pain, and tachycardia have been reported in , , , and  of patients, respectively.
Cerebrovascular accidents, postural dizziness, bradycardia, cardiac arrhythmias, and myocardial infarction have been reported in postmarketing studies.
Patients treated with doxazosin during the Antihypertensive and Lipid Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT) had a greater likelihood of developing congestive heart failure.
Ocular side effects including Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome (IFIS) have been observed in some patients undergoing phacoemulsification cataract surgery while being treated with alpha- blockers.
Blurred vision has been reported in postmarketing studies.
Most reports were in patients treated with an alpha- blocker at the time IFIS occurred, but in some instances the alpha- blocker had been stopped prior to surgery.
The manufacturer recommends that patients be questioned to determine whether or not they have taken alpha- blockers prior to being considered for cataract surgery.
If it is determined that the patient has taken an alpha- blocker, the patient's ophthalmologist should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique that may be necessary should IFIS be observed during the procedure.
Anxiety, insomnia, and paresthesias have each been reported in  of patients.
Dry mouth and flushing have been reported in less than  of patients.
Nervous system side effects have included dizziness in up to , headache or fatigue/lethargy in  to , and somnolence in  of patients.
Hypoesthesia and paresthesia have been reported in postmarketing studies.
Respiratory system complaints of dyspnea and rhinitis have been reported in  to  of patients.
Aggravated bronchospasm has been reported in postmarketing studies.
Gastrointestinal side effects are unusual, and are mainly limited to nausea or diarrhea in  to  of patients.
Dyspepsia, general abdominal pain, flatulence, and constipation have each been reported in about  of patients.
Musculoskeletal pain has been reported in  to  of patients.
Muscle cramps and muscle weakness have been reported in postmarketing studies.
Genitourinary complaints are rare.
Approximately  of men have reported impotence and about  have reported urinary frequency.
Hematuria, micturition disorder, micturition frequency, nocturia, polyuria, and gynecomastia have been reported in postmarketing studies.
In addition, at lease one case of priapism associated with doxazosin (the active ingredient contained in Cardura) use has been reported.
The Treatment of Mild Hypertension Study (TOMHS), a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study has shown that there is a slightly and significantly higher incidence of sexual dysfunction (obtaining and maintaining erections) among male patients who were taking doxazosin for  months compared with placebo
In a study of  hypertensive patients with renal insufficiency, a single case of a personality change has been associated with the use of doxazosin (the active ingredient contained in Cardura) 
Psychiatric abnormalities including depression and anxiety have been reported in less than  of patients.
Anorexia and nervousness have been reported in postmarketing studies.
In addition, at least one case of psychosis associated with doxazosin use has been reported.
The manufacturer has reported  possible doxazosin-related cases of neutropenia from a database of , patients.
In cases where follow-up was available the white blood cell count and differential cell count returned to normal after drug discontinuation.
No patients became symptomatic as a result of the low white blood cell or neutrophil counts.
Hematologic abnormalities are extremely rare.
Decreases in baseline white blood cell and neutrophil counts of  and , respectively, have been reported from controlled clinical trials.
Leukopenia, purpura, and thrombocytopenia have been reported in postmarketing studies.
From a study of , patients, less than  reported a rash.
Hypersensitivity to doxazosin has been rarely reported.
Hepatic side effects including abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis, cholestatic hepatitis, and jaundice have been reported in postmarketing studies.
Dermatologic side effects have included urticaria.
Alopecia has been reported in postmarketing studies.
Other side effects including fatigue, hot flashes, and malaise have been reported in postmarketing studies.
Dizziness or lightheadedness
Blurred vision
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position
fainting (sudden)
fast and pounding heartbeat
irregular heartbeat
shortness of breath
sweating
swelling of feet or lower legs
Painful or prolonged erection of the penis (called priapism), although extremely rare, must have immediate medical attention.
If painful or prolonged erection occurs, call your doctor or go to an emergency room as soon as possible
Abdominal or stomach pain
area rash 
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in urine or stools
chest pain or discomfort
chills
clay-colored stools
cough
dark urine
diarrhea
difficulty breathing
difficult, burning, or painful urination
fever
general tiredness and weakness
headache, sudden and severe 
inability to speak
itching 
lab results that show problems with liver
light-colored stools
loss of appetite 
noisy breathing
pain or discomfort in arms, jaw, back or neck
pinpoint red or purple spots on skin
rash
seizures
slow or irregular heartbeat
slurred speech
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on lips or in mouth
swollen glands
temporary blindness 
tightness in chest
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
upper right abdominal pain
vomiting 
vomiting of blood
weakness in arm and/or leg on one side of the body, sudden and severe
wheezing
yellow eyes and skin
Headache
lack or loss of strength
unusual tiredness or weakness
Acid or sour stomach
back pain
belching
bladder pain
cloudy urine
difficulty in moving
frequent urge to urinate
heartburn 
indigestion
joint pain 
lower back or side pain
muscle aching, cramping, or weakness
muscle pains or stiffness
nausea
nervousness, restlessness, unusual irritability
runny nose
sleepiness or drowsiness
sneezing
sore throat
stomach discomfort, upset or pain
swollen joints
Anxiety
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, pins and needles, or tingling feeling
change in frequency or urination
dry mouth
feeling of warmth
frequent urination
general feeling of discomfort or illness
hair loss
hives or welts
hyperventilation
increased urge to urinate during the night
increased volume of pale dilute urine
loss of appetite
painful urination
redness of skin
redness of the face, neck, arms and occasionally upper chest 
shaking
swelling of the breasts or breast soreness in both females and males
thinning of hair
trouble in holding or releasing urine
trouble sleeping
waking to urinate at night
weight loss