Side effects include:
Diarrhea, genital pruritus or vaginitis, headache, nausea, vomiting, rash.

If diarrhea occurs and it is unresponsive to discontinuation of the drug and/or standard therapy, pseudomembranous colitis should be considered.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain.
Extended-release cefaclor has been associated with diarrhea , nausea , and anorexia, constipation, dyspepsia, flatulence, gastritis, nausea and vomiting, and vomiting in  to  of patients.
Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported in patients treated with cephalosporins.
Anaphylactic reactions are rare, but may occur, especially in patients with a history of penicillin allergy.
Serum-sickness-like reactions are more frequent in pediatric patients and following a second or subsequent course of cefaclor and have been characterized by erythema multiforme, rash, arthritis, and/or arthralgia with or without fever.
Hypersensitivity reactions have included rash, morbilliform eruptions , pruritus, serum-sickness-like reactions, urticaria, anaphylactic reaction, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, anaphylactoid reaction, and angioedema.
Hepatic side effects have included slight elevations AST, ALT, and alkaline phosphatase in  of patients.
Extended-release cefaclor has been associated with increased ALT , increased alkaline phosphatase , increased bilirubin , increased creatine phosphokinase , and increased GGT .
Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with elevated LDH, hepatic dysfunction, and cholestasis.
One case report of acute interstitial nephritis and nonoliguric renal failure has been reported following cefaclor therapy.
(Reversible fever, azotemia, pyuria, and eosinophiluria are the hallmarks of cephalosporin-induced interstitial nephritis.
)
Renal side effects have included transient elevations in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine in  of patients, reversible interstitial nephritis (rare), and abnormal urinalysis .
Extended-release cefaclor has been associated with increased BUN , and increased creatinine .
Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with toxic nephropathy, reversible interstitial nephritis, and renal dysfunction.
Hematologic side effects have included eosinophilia , positive Coombs' test (less than ), leukopenia, thrombocytosis, transient thrombocytopenia (rare), transient lymphocytosis, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, agranulocytosis, and reversible neutropenia.
Extended-release cefaclor has been associated with increased eosinophils , decreased erythrocyte count , decreased hemoglobin , decreased lymphocytes , increased mean cell volume , decreased segmented neutrophils , and decreased platelet count .
Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with hemorrhage and pancytopenia.
Genitourinary side effects have included genital pruritus and vaginitis in less than  of patients.
Extended-release cefaclor has been associated with vaginitis  and vaginal moniliasis , and dysmenorrhea, dysuria, leukorrhea, menstrual disorder, and nocturia in  to  of patients.
Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with false-positive tests for urine glucose.
Nervous system side effects have rarely included reversible hyperactivity, agitation, nervousness, insomnia, confusion, hypertonia, dizziness, hallucinations, and somnolence.
Extended release cefaclor has been associated with headache in  of patients, and dizziness, insomnia, nervousness, somnolence, and tremor in  to  of patients, and paresthesia and vertigo.
Some cephalosporins have been associated with seizures, primarily when dosages were not reduced in renally impaired patients.
Other side effects associated with extended-release cefaclor have included abdominal pain , back pain , and accidental injury, chest pain, chills, ear pain, fever, flu syndrome, infection, malaise, neck pain, otitis media, pain, and surgical procedure in  to  of patients.
Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with abdominal pain, fever, and superinfection.
Respiratory side effects associated with extended-release cefaclor have included rhinitis , increased cough , pharyngitis , and asthma, bronchitis, lung disorder, respiratory disorder, and sinusitis in  to  of patients.
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus, maculopapular rash, rash, and urticaria.
Musculoskeletal side effects associated with extended-release cefaclor have included arthralgia and myalgia in  to  of patients.
Cardiovascular side effects associated with extended-release cefaclor have included congestive heart failure ( to ), edema ( to ), palpitation ( to ), peripheral edema ( to ), hypotension, face edema, vasodilatation, and syncope.
Ocular side effects associated with extended-release cefaclor have included conjunctivitis ( to ).
Endocrine side effects associated with extended-release cefaclor have included sweating ( to ).
Metabolic side effects associated with extended-release cefaclor have included decreased albumin , decreased calcium , increased creatine phosphokinase , increased phosphorus , increased potassium , decreased sodium , and increased sodium .