Commonly reported side effects of cefdinir include: diarrhea.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Reddish-colored stools have occurred when cefdinir was taken with iron-containing products, and may be due to the formation of non-absorbable complexes in the GI tract.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea (15%), nausea (3%), abdominal pain (1%), dyspepsia (0.
7%), flatulence (0.
7%), vomiting (0.
7%), anorexia (0.
3%), constipation (0.
3%), dry mouth (03%), abnormal stools (0.
3%), moniliasis (0.
2%) and pseudomembranous colitis.
Adverse effects reported during postmarketing experience with cefdinir, regardless of causality, have included stomatitis, acute enterocolitis, bloody diarrhea, hemorrhagic colitis, melena, upper GI bleed, peptic ulcer, and ileus.
Hypersensitivity reactions associated with cephalosporin class antibiotics have included allergic reactions, anaphylaxis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and toxic epidermal necrolysis.
Adverse effects reported during postmarketing experience with cefdinir, regardless of causality, have included anaphylaxis (with rare cases of fatality), serum sickness-like reactions, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis.
Dermatologic side effects have included rash (0.
9%) and pruritus (0.
2%).
Adverse effects reported during postmarketing experience with cefdinir, regardless of causality, have included exfoliative dermatitis, erythema multiforme, and erythema nodosum.
Genitourinary side effects have included vaginal moniliasis (4% of women), vaginitis (1% of women), leukorrhea (0.
2% of women), increased urine leukocytes (2%), increased urine protein (1%), increased microhematuria (1%), increased urine glucose (0.
9%), increased urine specific gravity (0.
6%), decreased urine specific gravity (0.
2%), increased urine pH (0.
2%).
Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with false-positive tests for urine glucose.
Nervous system side effects have included headache (2%), dizziness (0.
3%), insomnia (0.
2%), asthenia (0.
2%), and somnolence (0.
2%).
Some cephalosporins have been associated with seizures in renally impaired patients.
Adverse effects reported during postmarketing experience with cefdinir, regardless of causality, have included loss of consciousness.
Hematologic side effects have included increased lymphocytes (1%), decreased lymphocytes (0.
2%), increased white blood cells (0.
9%), decreased white blood cells (0.
7%), increased eosinophils (0.
7%), decreased hemoglobin (0.
3%), increased polymorphonuclear neutrophils (0.
3%), decreased polymorphonuclear neutrophils (0.
2%), and increased platelets (0.
2%).
Adverse effects reported during postmarketing experience with cefdinir, regardless of causality, have included granulocytopenia, pancytopenia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, hemolytic anemia, bleeding tendency, coagulation disorder, and disseminated intravascular coagulation.
Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, prolonged prothrombin time, hemorrhage, neutropenia, pancytopenia, and agranulocytosis.
Metabolic side effects have included increased gamma-glutamyltransferase (1%), increased alanine aminotransferase (0.
7%), decreased bicarbonate (0.
6%), increased phosphorus (0.
6%), decreased phosphorus (0.
3%), increased aspartate aminotransferase (0.
4%), increased alkaline phosphatase (0.
3%), increased blood urea nitrogen (0.
3%), increased bilirubin (0.
2%), increased lactate dehydrogenase (0.
2%), and increased potassium (0.
2%).
Hepatic side effects associated with cephalosporins as a class have included hepatic dysfunction, including cholestasis.
Adverse effects reported during postmarketing experience with cefdinir, regardless of causality, have included acute hepatitis, cholestasis, fulminant hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice, and increased amylase.
Renal side effects associated with cephalosporins as a class have included renal dysfunction and toxic nephropathy.
Adverse effects reported during postmarketing experience with cefdinir, regardless of causality, have included acute renal failure and nephropathy.
Ocular adverse effects reported during postmarketing experience with cefdinir, regardless of causality, have included conjunctivitis.
Respiratory adverse effects reported during postmarketing experience with cefdinir, regardless of causality, have included acute respiratory failure, asthmatic attack, drug-induced pneumonia, eosinophilic pneumonia, and idiopathic interstitial pneumonia.
Adverse effects reported during postmarketing experience with cefdinir, regardless of causality, have included fever, shock, feeling of suffocation, and facial and laryngeal edema.
Cardiovascular adverse effects reported during postmarketing experience with cefdinir, regardless of causality, have included cardiac failure, chest pain, myocardial infarction, hypertension, and allergic vasculitis.
Musculoskeletal adverse effects reported during postmarketing experience with cefdinir, regardless of causality, have included involuntary movements and rhabdomyolysis.
Geriatric patients have been reported to experience a lower rate of adverse events, including diarrhea, than younger patients.
Diarrhea
Black, tarry stools
chest pain
chills
cough
fever
painful or difficult urination
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swollen glands
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Abdominal or stomach cramps or tenderness
back, leg, or stomach pains
bleeding gums
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating
blood in the urine or stools
bloody nose
bloody or cloudy urine
bloody, black, or tarry stools
blue lips, fingernails, or skin
bruising
chest pain or discomfort
clay-colored stools
cold, clammy skin
confusion
coughing or vomiting blood
cracks in the skin
dark-colored urine
diarrhea, watery and severe, which may also be bloody
difficult or troubled breathing
difficulty with breathing or swallowing
dilated neck veins
dizziness
extreme fatigue
fast heartbeat
fast, weak pulse
feeling of discomfort
general body swelling
general tiredness and weakness
headache
heavier menstrual periods
high fever
hives
hoarseness
increased thirst
inflammation of the joints
irregular breathing
irregular heartbeat
irregular, fast or slow, or shallow breathing
itching
joint or muscle pain
light-colored stools
lightheadedness
loss of appetite
loss of consciousness
loss of heat from the body
muscle aches
muscle cramps or spasms
muscle pain or stiffness
nausea or vomiting
noisy breathing
nosebleeds
pain in the ankles or knees
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
painful, red lumps under the skin, mostly on the legs
pale skin
persistent bleeding or oozing from puncture sites, mouth, or nose
pinpoint red spots on the skin
problems with bleeding or clotting
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rash
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
red, swollen skin
scaly skin
seizures
severe stomach pain
slow or irregular breathing
sudden decrease in the amount of urine
sweating
swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or lower legs
swollen lymph glands
tightness in the chest
unpleasant breath odor
unusual weight loss
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
vomiting of blood
weight gain
wheezing
yellow eyes or skin
Itching of the vagina or genital area
pain during sexual intercourse
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
vaginal yeast infection
Acid or sour stomach
belching
constipation
dry mouth
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
full feeling
heartburn
increase in body movements
increased clear or white vaginal discharge
indigestion
lack or loss of strength
passing gas
rash with flat lesions or small raised lesions on the skin
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
soreness or redness around the fingernails and toenails
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
unable to sleep
Burning, dry, or itching eyes
discharge, excessive tearing
redness, pain, or swelling of the eye, eyelid, or inner lining of the eyelid
swelling or inflammation of the mouth