Cefepime is generally well tolerated.
It has been reported that  of patients discontinued medication due to adverse events.
If diarrhea occurs which is unresponsive to discontinuation of cefepime and/or standard therapy, pseudomembranous colitis should be considered.
Higher doses ( grams every  hours) have been associated with a greater incidence of side effects, including diarrhea , nausea , and vomiting .
Uncommon ( to ): Colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis), diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, oral moniliasisFrequency not reported: Abdominal pain, anorexia, stomatitis, Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea
Common ( to ): Local reactions Uncommon ( to ): Phlebitis , pain and/or inflammation Frequency not reported: Infusion site reaction
Local reactions , including phlebitis  and pain and/or inflammation , have been reported irrespective to cefepime in patients who received intravenous infusion.
Uncommon ( to ): HeadacheFrequency not reported: SomnolencePostmarketing reports: Neurotoxicity, encephalopathy (disturbance of consciousness including confusion, hallucinations, stupor, coma), myoclonus, seizures, nonconvulsive status epilepticus
Encephalopathy, myoclonus, seizures, and nonconvulsive status epilepticus have been reported.
Although most cases occurred in patients with renal impairment who received higher than recommended doses of cefepime, some cases of neurotoxicity occurred in patients receiving an appropriate dosage for their degree of renal impairment.
In the majority of cases, symptoms of neurotoxicity were reversible and resolved after discontinuation of cefepime and/or after hemodialysis.
Case reports of seizure activity, with and without convulsions, associated with cefepime have been published in the medical literature.
In the vast majority of cases, the patient involved had a clinically significant degree of renal dysfunction.
In each case, seizure activity abated upon the discontinuation of cefepime.
Higher doses ( grams every  hours) have been associated with a greater incidence of side effects, including headache .
A -year-old female developed acute renal failure, altered level of consciousness (Glasgow Coma Scale ), and nonconvulsive status epilepticus after  days of cefepime  g every  hours.
Symptoms resolved and she completely recovered  hours after discontinuation of cefepime.
Common ( to ): Rash Uncommon ( to ): Urticaria, pruritus, erythemaRare (less than ): Red man syndrome (at least  case)Frequency not reported: Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, toxic epidermal necrolysis
Higher doses ( grams every  hours) have been associated with a higher incidence of side effects, including rash  and pruritus .
Cephalosporin class antibiotics have been associated with Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and toxic epidermal necrolysis.
Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, prolonged prothrombin time, hemorrhage, and pancytopenia.
Very common ( or more): Positive Coombs' test (without hemolysis; )Common ( to ): Increased eosinophils , abnormal PTT , abnormal PT Uncommon ( to ): Decreased hematocrit, decreased neutrophils, decreased platelets, decreased white blood cells, anemiaFrequency not reported: Epistaxis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, prolonged prothrombin time, hemorrhage, pancytopenia
Anaphylactic reactions are rare, but may occur, especially in patients with a history of penicillin allergy.
Cephalosporin class antibiotics have been associated with allergic reactions.
Frequency not reported: Acute hypersensitivity myocarditis, allergic reactionsPostmarketing reports: Anaphylaxis (including anaphylactic shock, transient leukopenia, neutropenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia)
Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis.
Common ( to ): Increased ALT , increased AST Uncommon ( to ): Increased alkaline phosphatase, increased total bilirubinFrequency not reported: Hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis
Hypocalcemia was more common among elderly patients.
Clinical consequences from changes in either calcium or phosphorus were not reported.
Common ( to ): Decreased phosphorus Uncommon ( to ): Decreased calcium, increased calcium, increased phosphorus, increased potassiumFrequency not reported: Hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia
Higher doses ( grams every  hours) have been associated with a greater incidence of side effects, including fever .
Uncommon ( to ): Fever
Uncommon ( to ): Increased BUN, increased creatinineFrequency not reported: Renal failure, renal dysfunction, toxic nephropathy
Renal failure, mostly in patients with renal impairment who received higher than recommended doses of cefepime, has been reported.
Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with renal dysfunction and toxic nephropathy.
Uncommon ( to ): Vaginitis
Frequency not reported: Cough, dyspnea
Frequency not reported: Tachycardia
Abdominal or stomach cramps
back, leg, or stomach pains
bleeding gums, nosebleeds
confusion
convulsions
dark urine
difficulty with breathing
fever, chills
general body swelling
headache
irregular heartbeats
loss of appetite
mood or mental changes
muscle cramps in the hands, arms, feet, legs, or face
nausea or vomiting
numbness and tingling around the mouth, fingertips, or feet
tremor
yellowing of the eyes or skin
Bluish color
pain, tenderness
swelling of the foot or leg
Diarrhea
inflammation or swelling
watery or bloody diarrhea
Agitation
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloody or cloudy urine
bloody, black, or tarry stools
blurred vision
change in consciousness
chest pain
cough or hoarseness
difficult or painful urination
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
itching, hives
muscle twitching or jerking
paralysis
pinpoint red spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
rhythmic movement of the muscles
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
seizures
severe sleepiness
stiff neck
sudden decrease in the amount of urine
swollen or painful glands
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
vomiting of blood
Red streaks on the skin
swelling, tenderness, or pain at the injection site
Itching of the vagina or genital area
pain during sexual intercourse
redness of the skin
sore mouth or tongue
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
white patches in the mouth, tongue, or throat