Cefoxitin is generally well-tolerated.
Hypersensitivity reactions have included pruritus, rash, exfoliative dermatitis, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria, flushing, dyspnea,  angioedema, anaphylaxis, interstitial nephritis, eosinophilia, and fever.
Cephalosporin class antibiotics have been associated with erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and serum sickness-like reactions.
There is a  to  chance of an allergic reaction to cefoxitin (or any cephalosporin) among patients who are allergic to a penicillin.
A case of occupational contact dermatitis due to cephalosporin allergy has been reported in a nurse who prepared cephalosporin solutions for administration to patients.
The dermatitis resolved after the nurse stopped preparing the solutions.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and pseudomembranous colitis.
Cephalosporin class antibiotics have been associated with abdominal pain and colitis.
A -year-old man with bilateral staghorn renal calculi, Proteus mirabilis urinary tract infection, and acute renal failure developed non-bloody diarrhea and fever associated with leukocytosis and ileus within two days after beginning cefoxitin  gram intravenously once a day.
Sigmoidoscopy and stool pathology revealed innumerable small white plaques and Clostridium difficile toxin.
The cefoxitin was stopped, vancomycin retention enemas were given (due to ileus, oral vancomycin was not tried), and the patient recovered.
A study of  patients demonstrated that of  patients developing Clostridium difficile colitis,  had received cefoxitin.
Pseudomembranous colitis may occur during or after treatment.
Nervous system side effects have included somnolence, dizziness, and headache.
Some cephalosporin-class antibiotics have been associated with seizures, especially in patients with renal dysfunction.
Renal side effects have included increased serum creatinine and  blood urea nitrogen, and acute renal failure (rare).
Cephalosporin class antibiotics have been associated with renal dysfunction, toxic nephropathy, reversible, dose-related acute tubular necrosis, and interstitial nephritis.
Interstitial nephritis manifests as reversible fever, azotemia, pyuria, and eosinophiluria.
Local side effects have included thrombophlebitis with intravenous administration.
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypotension.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included exacerbation of myasthenia gravis.
Hematologic side effects have included eosinophilia, leukopenia, granulocytopenia, neutropenia, anemia, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, bone marrow depression, and positive direct Coombs' test.
Cephalosporin class antibiotics have been associated with aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, prolonged prothrombin time, pancytopenia, and agranulocytosis.
Hepatic side effects have included transient elevations of SGOT, SGPT, LDH, and alkaline phosphatase, and jaundice.
Cephalosporin class antibiotics have been associated with hepatic dysfunction, cholestasis, and elevated bilirubin.
Genitourinary side effects associated with cephalosporin class antibiotics have included vaginitis, vaginal candidiasis, and false positive tests for urine glucose.
Other side effects associated with cephalosporin class antibiotics have included superinfection.
Other side effects associated with higher doses of cefoxitin have included an increased incidence of SGOT elevations and eosinophilia in pediatric patients.
Changes in skin color
pain
swelling of the foot or leg
tenderness
Agitation
coma
confusion
decreased urine output
depression
dizziness
headache
hostility
irritability
lethargy
muscle twitching
nausea
rapid weight gain
seizures
stupor
swelling of the face, ankles, or hands
unusual tiredness or weakness
Abdominal or stomach cramps or tenderness
back, leg, or stomach pains
bleeding and bruising
bleeding gums
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating
bloody or cloudy urine
bloody, black, or tarry stools
chest pain
chills
clay-colored stools
cloudy urine
cough
coughing up blood
cracks in the skin
dark urine
decrease in urine output or decrease in urine-concentrating ability
diarrhea
diarrhea, watery and severe, which may also be bloody
difficult or labored breathing
difficult or painful urination
difficulty with breathing, chewing, swallowing, or talking
dizziness
double vision
drooping eyelids
fast heartbeat
feeling of discomfort
fever
general body swelling
greatly decreased frequency of urination or amount of urine
headache
high fever
hives
increased menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding
increased thirst
inflammation of the joints
itching
itching of the vagina or genital area
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
loss of heat from the body
muscle aches
muscle weakness
nosebleeds
pain during sexual intercourse
pale skin
paralysis
prolonged bleeding from cuts
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rash
red or black, tarry stools
red or dark brown urine
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
red, swollen skin
scaly skin
severe tiredness
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
sudden decrease in the amount of urine
swelling of the feet or lower legs
swollen lymph glands
swollen or painful glands
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing with exertion
unexplained bleeding or bruising
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual weight loss
vomiting
vomiting of blood
wheezing
yellowing of the eyes or skin
Red streaks on the skin
swelling, tenderness, or pain at the injection site
Hives or welts
redness of the skin