Adverse effects may be more likely or more severe in patients with renal and/or liver dysfunction.
Ceftizoxime is generally well-tolerated.
A case of occupational contact dermatitis due to cephalosporin allergy has been reported in a nurse who prepared cephalosporin solutions for administration to patients.
The dermatitis resolved after the nurse stopped preparing the solutions.
Hypersensitivity reactions including rash, pruritus, and fever have been reported in 1% to 5% of patients.
Numbness and anaphylaxis have been reported in less than 1% of patients.
Cephalosporin class antibiotics have been associated with anaphylaxis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, and toxic epidermal necrolysis.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting in less than 1% of patients.
Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported in patients treated with cephalosporins.
If diarrhea occurs and is unresponsive to discontinuation of the drug and/or standard therapy, pseudomembranous colitis should be considered.
Hematologic side effects have included transient eosinophilia, thrombocytosis, and positive Coombs' test in 1% to 5% of patients.
Anemia, including occasionally fatal hemolytic anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia have been reported in less than 1% of patients.
Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, prolonged prothrombin time, hemorrhage, neutropenia, pancytopenia, and agranulocytosis.
Renal side effects have included transient elevations of BUN and creatinine (less than 1%).
Interstitial nephritis has been reported with some cephalosporins, and presents as reversible fever, azotemia, pyuria, and eosinophiluria.
Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with renal dysfunction and toxic nephropathy.
Hepatic side effects have included transient elevation of AST, ALT, and alkaline phosphatase in 1% to 5% of patients, and bilirubin increases in less than 1%.
Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis.
Nervous system side effects including seizures have been associated with some cephalosporins in renally impaired patients.
Local side effects have included burning, cellulitis, phlebitis, pain, induration, tenderness, and paresthesia at the injection site in 1% to 5% of patients.
Genitourinary side effects have included vaginitis (less than 1%).