If any of the following side effects occur while taking ceftriaxone, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
This drug was generally well tolerated.
The most common side effects were eosinophilia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, diarrhea, rash, and increased hepatic enzymes.
Incidence of side effects was somewhat higher in children and with higher doses.
Very common ( or more): Warmth/tightness/induration with IM injection (up to )Uncommon ( to ): Injection site pain/discomfort, injection site induration, injection site tenderness, phlebitis after IV administration
Local side effects were increased if water was used as the diluent instead of lidocaine (lignocaine).
IM injection has been associated with warmth, tightness, and induration in  of patients receiving the  mg/mL solution and  of patients receiving the  mg/mL solution.
Common ( to ): Eosinophilia, thrombocytosis, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, neutropeniaUncommon ( to ): Anemia, granulocytopenia, coagulopathy, hemolytic anemia, lymphopenia, prolonged prothrombin timeRare (less than ): Agranulocytosis, lymphocytosis, leukocytosis, monocytosis, basophilia, decreased prothrombin time, hemolysis (fatal)Frequency not reported: Bleeding, hypoprothrombinemiaPostmarketing reports: Coombs' test false positiveCephalosporin class:-Frequency not reported: Aplastic anemia, hemorrhage, positive direct Coombs' test
Nineteen cases ( adults,  children) of immune hemolytic anemia have been reported,  of which were fatal.
Symptoms occurred within minutes or weeks of drug administration.
Initial symptoms included tachycardia, hypotension, dyspnea, pallor, back or leg pain, and decreased hemoglobin levels.
Most of these patients had preexisting hematologic or immunodeficiency disorders, and  had Crohn's disease.
Bleeding and bruising (due to hypoprothrombinemia) may have been more prevalent in patients with liver or renal dysfunction, malnourished patients, patients with low vitamin K levels, and patients using this drug for a prolonged duration.
Hemolytic anemia and agranulocytosis have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Most cases of agranulocytosis (less than /mm) were after  days of therapy and after total doses of at least  g.
Shadows on sonograms of the gallbladder (mistaken for gallstones, but actually ceftriaxone-calcium precipitates) have been reported, primarily after doses higher than the standard recommended dose.
Prospective studies showed variable incidence of precipitation with IV administration in children (more than  in some studies), but slow infusion ( to  minutes) appeared to lower the incidence.
Risk of forming precipitates was increased by duration of therapy exceeding  days, renal failure, dehydration, or total parenteral nutrition.
Effect was usually asymptomatic, but clinical symptoms (, pain, nausea, vomiting) have been reported.
Precipitation was usually reversible upon drug discontinuation.
Both pseudocholelithiasis (biliary "sludging") and true cholelithiasis (ceftriaxone-containing gallstone) have been reported in association with doses greater than  g/day.
A false-positive hepatobiliary scan occurred in a patient receiving this drug.
A repeat test  weeks after this drug was discontinued was normal.
Hepatitis has also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Common ( to ): Increased hepatic enzymes, increased ALT, increased ASTUncommon ( to ): Increased bilirubinRare (less than ): Hepatitis, jaundice, gallbladder sludge, biliary lithiasis, cholestatic jaundiceFrequency not reported: Transient elevations in liver function tests, shadows on sonograms of the gallbladder, cholelithiasis, pseudocholelithiasis, false-positive hepatobiliary scanPostmarketing reports: Gallbladder precipitationCephalosporin class:-Frequency not reported: Hepatic dysfunction, cholestasis
Common ( to ): Diarrhea/loose stoolsUncommon ( to ): Nausea, vomitingRare (less than ): Colitis, flatulence, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, pseudomembranous colitisFrequency not reported: Clostridium difficile-associated diarrheaPostmarketing reports: Pancreatitis, stomatitis, glossitis
The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms has been reported during or after antimicrobial treatment.
A case of AGEP has been reported after administration of this drug.
This was characterized by the appearance of an erythematous and generalized scarlatiniform rash with plaques covered by small nonfollicular pustules on the thighs, abdomen, and lower extremities.
This drug was discontinued and the AGEP was completely resolved after  weeks.
Allergic dermatitis and urticaria have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
A case of occupational contact dermatitis has been reported in a nurse who prepared cephalosporin solutions for administration to patients.
The dermatitis resolved after the nurse stopped preparing the solutions.
Common ( to ): RashUncommon ( to ): Pruritus, maculopapular rash/exanthema, allergic dermatitis, diaphoresisRare (less than ): UrticariaFrequency not reported: Severe dermatitis, exfoliative erythroderma, bruisingPostmarketing reports: Exanthema, severe cutaneous reactions, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, Lyell's syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP)Cephalosporin class:-Frequency not reported: Contact dermatitis
Common ( to ): Increased BUN/serum ureaUncommon ( to ): Increased blood creatinineRare (less than ): Renal precipitations, nephrolithiasis, acute renal tubular necrosisPostmarketing reports: Oliguria, ureteric obstruction, post-renal acute renal failureCephalosporin class:-Frequency not reported: Renal dysfunction, toxic nephropathy
Cases of renal precipitation have been reported, primarily in children older than  years who received either high daily doses (, at least  mg/kg/day) or total doses exceeding  g and who had other risk factors (, fluid restrictions, confinement to bed).
Risk of forming precipitates was increased in immobilized or dehydrated patients.
Precipitation was reversible upon drug discontinuation.
Renal precipitation has also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Uncommon ( to ): Genital fungal infection, urinary casts, candidiasis, vaginitisRare (less than ): Glycosuria, hematuria, crystalluria
Severe and sometimes fatal reactions have been reported in term and premature newborns (younger than  days) treated with IV ceftriaxone and calcium-containing IV solutions; a crystalline material (ceftriaxone-calcium precipitate) has been observed in the lungs and kidneys at autopsy.
The same IV infusion line was used for this drug and calcium-containing solutions in some cases; precipitate was observed in the IV infusion line in some cases.
Ceftriaxone and calcium-containing solutions infused at different times by different IV lines resulted in at least  neonate fatality; there was no crystalline material observed at autopsy.
Edema has also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Uncommon ( to ): Pyrexia/fever, flushingRare (less than ): Edema, chills, drug fever, shiveringPostmarketing reports: Superinfection with nonsusceptible microorganisms, ceftriaxone-calcium precipitates/crystalline materialCephalosporin class:-Frequency not reported: Drug fever, superinfection
Several cephalosporins have been implicated in triggering seizures, especially in patients with renal dysfunction when dose was not reduced.
Uncommon ( to ): Headache, dizziness, dysgeusiaRare (less than ): SeizuresPostmarketing reports: Convulsion, vertigo, kernicterusCephalosporin class:-Frequency not reported: Reversible hyperactivity, hypertonia, seizures triggered
Uncommon ( to ): Increased alkaline phosphatasePostmarketing reports: Galactosemia test false positive, false-positive test for urinary glucose (nonenzymatic methods)Cephalosporin class:-Frequency not reported: Increased LDH, false-positive test for urinary glucose
An allergic reaction manifested by itching, maculopapular rash, hyperthermia, flushing has been reported in a patient with X-linked agammaglobulinemia in the absence of IgE.
T cell involvement was proposed as the mechanism.
Cross-sensitivity with other cephalosporins and penicillins has occurred; however, the incidence is unknown.
Rare (less than ): Anaphylaxis/anaphylactic-type reactions (, bronchospasms), serum sicknessFrequency not reported: Allergic reaction, cross-sensitivityPostmarketing reports: Anaphylaxis (anaphylactic shock, transient leukopenia, neutropenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia), anaphylactic reaction, anaphylactoid reaction, hypersensitivityCephalosporin class:-Frequency not reported: Allergic reactions, serum sickness-like reaction
Rare (less than ): PalpitationsFrequency not reported: Thrombus
Rare (less than ): Bronchospasm, epistaxis, allergic pneumonitis
Black, tarry stools
chest pain
chills
cough
fever
painful or difficult urination
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swollen glands
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Diarrhea
Abdominal or stomach cramps or tenderness
back, leg, or stomach pains
bleeding gums
bloating
blood in the urine or stools
bloody nose
bluish color
changes in skin color
clay-colored stools
convulsions
cough or hoarseness
dark urine
diarrhea, watery and severe, which may also be bloody
difficulty with breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
feeling of discomfort
feeling of warmth
fever with or without chills
general body swelling
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
headache
hives
increased sweating
increased thirst
inflammation of the joints
itching
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
muscle aches
nausea or vomiting
noisy breathing
nosebleeds
pain
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rash
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
shortness of breath
skin rash
swelling of the foot or leg
swollen lymph glands
tenderness
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing with exertion
unpleasant breath odor
unusual weight loss
vomiting of blood
watery or bloody diarrhea
wheezing
yellowing of the eyes or skin
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
chest pain
coughing up blood
decrease in the amount of urine
excessive muscle tone
increased menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding
muscle stiffness, tension, or tightness
nosebleeds
paralysis
prolonged bleeding from cuts
red irritated eyes
red or black, tarry stools
red or dark brown urine
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
restlessness
skin rash with a general disease
swelling
trouble sitting still
unpleasant breath odor
Acid or sour stomach
belching
bloated
change in taste
dizziness
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
full feeling
headache
heartburn
indigestion
itching of the vagina or genital area
loss of taste
pain during sexual intercourse
passing gas
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
Hives or welts
redness, swelling, or soreness of the tongue
swelling or inflammation of the mouth