More frequently reported side effects include: nausea.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Ceftibuten is generally well tolerated.
In clinical trials, 2% of patients discontinued medication due to adverse events, primarily diarrhea, nausea, or vomiting, and 0.
3% discontinued due to rash or pruritus.
If diarrhea occurs and is unresponsive to discontinuation of the drug and/or standard therapy, pseudomembranous colitis should be considered.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea (4%), diarrhea (3%), dyspepsia (2%), abdominal pain (1%) and vomiting (1%).
Anorexia, constipation, dry mouth, eructation, flatulence, loose stools and moniliasis have been reported in less than 1% of patients.
Melena has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported in patients treated with cephalosporins.
Nervous system side effects have included headache in 3% of patients and dizziness in 1%.
Somnolence, fatigue, agitation, hyperkinesia, irritability, insomnia, and paresthesia have been reported in less than 1% of patients.
Some cephalosporins have been associated with seizures in renally impaired patients.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included rash and pruritus in less than 1% of patients.
Serum sickness-like reactions, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Cephalosporin class antibiotics have been associated with anaphylaxis, drug fever, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and erythema multiforme.
Hematologic side effects have included increased eosinophils (3%), decreased hemoglobin (2%), increased or decreased platelets (less than 1%) and decreased leukocytes (less than 1%).
Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, prolonged prothrombin time, hemorrhage, neutropenia, pancytopenia, and agranulocytosis.
Hepatic side effects have included increased ALT (1%), increased bilirubin (1%), increased alkaline phosphatase (less than 1%), and increased AST (less than 1%).
Jaundice and transient increases in LDH have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis.
Renal side effects have included increased BUN (1%), increased creatinine (less than 1%), and dysuria (less than 1%).
Cephalosporins as a class have been associated with renal dysfunction and toxic nephropathy.
Genitourinary side effects have included dysuria, hematuria, and vaginitis in less than less than 1% of patients.
Other side effects have included taste perversion in less than 1% of patients.
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus, rash, diaper rash, and urticaria in less than 1% of patients.
Respiratory side effects have included dyspnea and nasal congestion in less than 1% of patients.
Psychiatric side effects have included reports of psychosis during postmarketing experience.
Burning while urinating
confusion
decreased urination
difficult or labored breathing
difficult or painful urination
dizziness
dry mouth
fainting
fever
increase in heart rate
lightheadedness
rapid breathing
shortness of breath
sunken eyes
thirst
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
wheezing
wrinkled skin
Abdominal or stomach cramps or tenderness
back, leg, or stomach pains
bleeding gums
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating
bloody or cloudy urine
bloody, black, or tarry stools
chest pain
chills
clay-colored stools
cloudy urine
cough or hoarseness
coughing up blood
dark urine
decrease in urine output or decrease in urine-concentrating ability
diarrhea
diarrhea, watery and severe, which may also be bloody
difficulty with breathing or swallowing
fast heartbeat
feeling of discomfort
feeling that others are watching you or controlling your behavior
feeling that others can hear your thoughts
feeling, seeing, or hearing things that are not there
fever with or without chills
general body swelling
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
high fever
hives
increased menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding
increased thirst
inflammation of the joints
itching
joint or muscle pain
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
muscle aches
nausea or vomiting
noisy breathing
nosebleeds
pain
pale skin
paralysis
problems with speech or speaking
prolonged bleeding from cuts
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red or black, tarry stools
red or dark brown urine
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
seizures
severe mood or mental changes
skin rash
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
sudden decrease in the amount of urine
swollen lymph glands
swollen or painful glands
unpleasant breath odor
unusual behavior
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual weight loss
vomiting of blood
wheezing
yellowing of the eyes or skin 
Acid or sour stomach
belching
heartburn
indigestion
loose stools
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
Agitation
bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
bloated, full feeling
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
change in taste
constipation
cracks in the skin at the corners of the mouth
dry mouth
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
feeling unusually cold
full feeling
headache
hives or welts
increase in the body movements
irritability
itching of the vagina or genital area
pain during sexual intercourse
passing gas
redness of the skin
shivering
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sleeplessness
soreness or redness around the fingernails and toenails
stuffy nose
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
trouble with sleeping
unable to sleep
weight loss