Common side effects of Celebrex include: diarrhea, hypertension, and abnormal hepatic function tests.
Other side effects include: abdominal pain, dyspepsia, gastroesophageal reflux disease, peripheral edema, vomiting, and increased liver enzymes.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking celecoxib, get emergency help immediately:
The most commonly reported adverse events included abdominal pain, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, peripheral edema, accidental injury, dizziness, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis, upper respiratory tract infection, and rash.
Constipation, diverticulitis, dysphagia, eructation, esophagitis, gastritis, gastroenteritis, gastroesophageal reflux, hemorrhoids, hiatal hernia, melena, dry mouth, stomatitis, tenesmus, tooth disorder, vomiting have been reported in 0.
1% to 1.
9% of patients taking celecoxib (the active ingredient contained in Celebrex) 100 to 200 mg twice a day or 200 mg once a day.
Serious gastrointestinal toxicity such as bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach, small intestine or large intestine, can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms in patient taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
Celecoxib should be used with caution in patients with a prior history of ulcer disease or gastrointestinal bleeding.
It is recommended that the lowest effective dose be administered for the shortest possible
Common (1% to 10%): Abdominal pain, diarrhea, dyspepsia, flatulence, nauseaRare (less than 0.
1%): Intestinal obstruction, intestinal perforation, gastrointestinal bleeding, colitis with bleeding, esophageal perforation, pancreatitis, ileus, esophageal ulcer, gastric ulcer, duodenal ulcerFrequency not reported: Constipation, diverticulitis, dysphagia, eructation, esophagitis, gastritis, gastroenteritis, gastroesophageal reflux, hemorrhoids, hiatal hernia, melena, dry mouth, stomatitis, tenesmus, tooth disorder, vomiting
Aggravated hypertension, angina pectoris, coronary artery disorder, myocardial infarction, palpitation, tachycardia, and arrhythmia have been reported in 0.
1% to 1.
9% of patients taking celecoxib (the active ingredient contained in Celebrex) 100 to 200 mg twice a day or 200 mg once a day.
In the long-term polyp prevention studies in which exposure to celecoxib was 400 to 800 mg per day for up to 3 years, unstable angina, aortic valve incompetence, coronary artery atherosclerosis, sinus bradycardia, ventricular hypertrophy, or deep vein thrombosis were reported in at least 0.
1% of patients to less than 1% of patients.
Chronic use of celecoxib may increase the risk of serious adverse cardiovascular thrombotic events including myocardial infarction (MI).
In the Adenoma Prevention with Celecoxib (APC) trial, the composite endpoint of cardiovascular death, MI, or stroke was 3.
4 [95% confidence interval (CI; 1.
4 to 8.
5] and 2.
8 [95% CI; 1.
4 to 8.
5] for celecoxib 400 mg twice a day and 200 mg twice a day, respectively, compared to placebo.
Over 3 years, the cumulative rates for this composite endpoint were 3% (20/671) and 2.
5% (17/685) of patients receiving 200 mg and 400 mg, respectively, compared to 0.
9% (6/679) of placebo patients.
The increase in drug-treated patients was mainly due to an increased incidence of myocardial infarction.
Common (1% to 10%): Peripheral edemaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Unstable angina, aortic valve incompetence, coronary artery atherosclerosis, sinus bradycardia, ventricular hypertrophy, deep vein thrombosisRare (less than 0.
1%): Syncope, cardiac failure congestive, ventricular fibrillation, thrombophlebitisFrequency not reported: Aggravated hypertension, angina pectoris, coronary artery disorder, myocardial infarction, arrhythmia, palpitation, tachycardiaPostmarketing reports: Vasculitis
Common (1% to 10%): Dizziness, headacheRare (less than 0.
1%): Aseptic meningitis, ataxia, aggravated epilepsyFrequency not reported: Leg cramps, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, migraine, neuralgia, neuropathy, paresthesia, vertigo, somnolence, taste perversionPostmarketing reports: Cerebral hemorrhage, ageusia, anosmia
Leg cramps, hypertonia, hypoesthesia, migraine, neuralgia, neuropathy, paresthesia, vertigo, taste perversion, and somnolence were reported in 0.
1% to 1.
9% of patients taking celecoxib 100 to 200 mg twice a day or 200 mg once a day.
In the long-term polyp prevention studies in which exposure to celecoxib was 400 to 800 mg per day for up to 3 years, cerebral infarction was reported in at least 0.
1% of patients to less than 1% of patients.
Common (1% to 10%): RashFrequency not reported: Alopecia, dermatitis, nail disorder, photosensitivity reaction, pruritus, rash erythematous, maculopapular rash, skin disorder, dry skin, sweating increased, urticariaPostmarketing reports: Erythema multiforme, dermatitis exfoliative, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), dermatitis bullous
Alopecia, dermatitis, nail disorder, photosensitivity reaction, pruritus, rash erythematous, maculopapular rash, skin disorder, dry skin, sweating increased, and urticaria were reported in 0.
1% to 1.
9% of patients taking celecoxib 100 to 200 mg twice a day or 200 mg once a day.
Ecchymosis, epistaxis, and thrombocytopenia were reported in 0.
1% to 1.
9% of patients taking celecoxib (the active ingredient contained in Celebrex) 100 to 200 mg twice a day or 200 mg once a day.
The incidence of hemoglobin increases greater than 2 g/dL was 0.
5% among patients treated with celecoxib 400 mg twice a day compared with 1.
3% and 1.
9% in patients receiving diclofenac 75 mg twice a day or ibuprofen 800 mg three times a day, respectively.
Mild prolongation of activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) but not prothrombin time (PT) has been observed in pediatric patients with systemic onset juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (without active systemic features).
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): AnemiaFrequency not reported: Ecchymosis, epistaxis, thrombocytopenia, mild prolongation of activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT)Postmarketing reports: Agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, pancytopenia, leukopenia
Abnormal hepatic function, AST and ALT increases were reported in 0.
1% to 1.
9% of patients taking celecoxib (the active ingredient contained in Celebrex) 100 to 200 mg twice a day or 200 mg once a day.
Rare (less than 0.
1%): CholelithiasisFrequency not reported: Abnormal hepatic function, AST and ALT increasesPostmarketing reports: Hepatitis, hepatitis fulminant, jaundice, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, cholestasis, hepatitis cholestatic, liver transplant, hepatic enzymes increased
Bronchitis, bronchospasm, aggravated bronchospasm, cough, dyspnea, laryngitis, and pneumonia were reported in 0.
1% to 1.
9% of patients taking celecoxib (the active ingredient contained in Celebrex) 100 to 200 mg twice a day or 200 mg once a day.
Common (1% to 10%): Pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis, upper respiratory tract infection Rare (less than 0.
1%): Pulmonary embolismFrequency not reported: Bronchitis, bronchospasm, aggravated bronchospasm, cough, dyspnea, laryngitis, pneumoniaPostmarketing reports: Pneumonitis
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Acute renal failurePostmarketing reports: Tubulointerstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, glomerulonephritis minimal lesion
Anxiety, depression, and nervousness were reported in 0.
1% to 1.
9% of patients taking celecoxib (the active ingredient contained in Celebrex) 100 to 200 mg twice a day or 200 mg once a day.
Common (1% to 10%): InsomniaRare (less than 0.
1%): ConfusionFrequency not reported: Anxiety, depression, nervousnessPostmarketing reports: Hallucination
Blurred vision, cataract, conjunctivitis, eye pain, and glaucoma were reported in 0.
1% to 1.
9% of patients taking celecoxib (the active ingredient contained in Celebrex) 100 to 200 mg twice a day or 200 mg once a day.
In the long-term polyp prevention studies in which exposure to celecoxib was 400 to 800 mg per day for up to 3 years, vitreous floaters or conjunctival hemorrhage was reported in at least 0.
1% of patients to less than 1% of patients.
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Vitreous floaters, conjunctival hemorrhageFrequency not reported: Blurred vision, cataract, conjunctivitis, eye pain, glaucoma
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Epicondylitis, tendon ruptureFrequency not reported: Arthralgia, arthrosis, bone disorder, accidental fracture, myalgia, neck stiffness, synovitis, tendinitis
Arthralgia, arthrosis, bone disorder, accidental fracture, myalgia, neck stiffness, synovitis, and tendinitis were reported in 0.
1% to 1.
9% of patients taking celecoxib 100 to 200 mg twice a day or 200 mg once a day.
In the long-term polyp prevention studies in which exposure to celecoxib was 400 to 800 mg per day for up to 3 years, epicondylitis or tendon rupture were reported in at least 0.
1% of patients to less than 1% of patients.
Asthenia fatigue, fever, hot flushes, influenza-like illness, cyst, and pain were reported in 0.
1% to 1.
9% of patients taking celecoxib (the active ingredient contained in Celebrex) 100 to 200 mg twice a day or 200 mg once a day.
Frequency not reported: Asthenia fatigue, fever, hot flushes, cyst, painPostmarketing reports: Conjunctivitis
Herpes simplex, herpes zoster, bacterial infection, fungal infection, soft tissue infection, viral infection, moniliasis, moniliasis genital, and influenza-like illness were reported in 0.
1% to 1.
9% of patients taking celecoxib (the active ingredient contained in Celebrex) 100 to 200 mg twice a day or 200 mg once a day.
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Gangrene Frequency not reported: Herpes simplex, herpes zoster, bacterial infection, fungal infection, soft tissue infection, viral infection, moniliasis, moniliasis genital, influenza-like illnessPostmarketing reports: Sepsis
Breast fibroadenosis and breast neoplasm were reported in 0.
1% to 1.
9% of patients taking celecoxib (the active ingredient contained in Celebrex) 100 to 200 mg twice a day or 200 mg once a day.
Frequency not reported: Breast fibroadenosis, breast neoplasm
Frequency not reported: Hypersensitivity Postmarketing reports: Anaphylactic shock, anaphylactic reaction, angioedema
Hypersensitivity was reported in 0.
1% to 1.
9% of patients taking celecoxib 100 to 200 mg twice a day or 200 mg once a day.
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): HyperkalemiaFrequency not reported: Increased blood urea nitrogen, increased creatinine phosphokinase, diabetes mellitus, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hypokalemia, non-protein nitrogen increased, creatinine increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, weight increased, anorexiaPostmarketing reports: Hypoglycemia, hyponatremia
Increased blood urea nitrogen, increased creatinine phosphokinase, diabetes mellitus, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia, hypokalemia, non-protein nitrogen increased, creatinine increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, anorexia, and increased weight increase were reported in 0.
1% to 1.
9% of patients taking celecoxib 100 to 200 mg twice a day or 200 mg once a day.
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): LabyrinthitisVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Hearing decreasedFrequency not reported: Otitis media, deafness, ear abnormality, earache, tinnitus
Otitis media, deafness, ear abnormality, earache, and tinnitus were reported in 0.
1% to 1.
9% of patients taking celecoxib 100 to 200 mg twice a day or 200 mg once a day.
In the long-term polyp prevention studies in which exposure to celecoxib was 400 to 800 mg per day for up to 3 years, labyrinthitis was reported in at least 0.
1% of patients to less than 1% of patients.
Postmarketing reports: Impaired female fertility
Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infectionUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Ovarian cystFrequency not reported: Albuminuria, cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, micturition frequency, renal calculus, dysmenorrhea, urinary incontinence, menstrual disorder, vaginal hemorrhage, vaginitis, prostatic disorder
Albuminuria, cystitis, dysuria, hematuria, micturition frequency, renal calculus, dysmenorrhea, urinary incontinence, menstrual disorder, vaginal hemorrhage, vaginitis, and prostatic disorder were reported in 0.
1% to 1.
9% of patients taking celecoxib 100 to 200 mg twice a day or 200 mg once a day.
In the long-term polyp prevention studies in which exposure to celecoxib was 400 to 800 mg per day for up to 3 years, ovarian cyst was reported in at least 0.
1% of patients to less than 1% of patients.
Cough
fever
skin rash
sneezing
sore throat
swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or lower legs
Abnormal growth in the breast
arm, back, or jaw pain
bloody or black, tarry stools
blurred vision
burning feeling in the chest or stomach
burning or stinging of the skin
burning, tingling, numbness, or pain in the hands, arms, feet, or legs
chest pain or discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
chills
confusion
congestion in the chest
cramps
diarrhea
dry mouth
earache
fast or irregular heartbeat
heartburn
heavy bleeding
heavy non-menstrual vaginal bleeding
high blood pressure
increased hunger
increased thirst
increased urination
loss of appetite
loss of consciousness
muscle aches and pains
nausea
nerve pain
painful blisters on the trunk of body
painful cold sores or blisters on the lips, nose, eyes, or genitals
pale skin
redness or swelling in the ear
sensation of pins and needles
soreness or redness around the fingernails and toenails
stabbing pain
stiff neck
stomachache
stomach pain (severe)
sweating
tenderness in the stomach area
troubled breathing with exertion
unexplained weight loss
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight gain
vomiting
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
weakness
wheezing
Area rash
changes in skin color
clay-colored stools
dilated neck veins
light-colored stools
pale or a bluish color skin of the fingers or toes
seizures
slurred speech
sores, welting, or blisters
sudden and severe inability to speak
unpleasant breath odor
weakness in the arm or leg on one side of the body
yellow eyes and skin
Continuing thirst
dizziness
drowsiness
headache, severe or continuing
shortness of breath
sudden decrease in the amount of urine
troubled breathing
weight gain
Back pain
gas
headache
heartburn
inability to sleep
pain or burning in the throat
stuffy or runny nose
Anxiety
bleeding after defecation
bloody or cloudy urine
breast pain
bone deformity
buzzing or ringing noise in the ears
change in sense of taste
constipation
decrease in height
decreased appetite
depression
difficult, burning, or painful urination
difficulty with moving or walking
difficulty with swallowing
excessive muscle tone, muscle tension, or tightness
excessive tearing
feeling of pressure
hair loss
hives
hoarseness
increased sweating
infection
inflammation
itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at site
itching of the vagina or genital area
joint or muscle pain or stiffness
large, flat, blue, or purplish patches in the skin
loss of energy or weakness
loss of hearing
muscle pain increased
muscle stiffness
nervousness
numbness or tingling in the fingers or toes
pain during sexual intercourse
pain in the back, ribs, arms, or legs
pounding heartbeat
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
redness or swelling in the arms or legs
sensitivity of the skin to sunlight
severe sunburn
sleepiness
straining while passing stool
sudden sweating and feelings of warmth
swelling
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
tenderness
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
thinning of the hair
trouble with swallowing
troubled breathing
uncomfortable swelling around anus
unexplained weight loss
voice changes
warmth on the skin
weakness or heaviness of the legs
Bleeding gums
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of sense of smell
pain
pinpoint red spots on the skin
red or irritated eyes
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
shakiness and unsteady walk
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
stomach cramps
swelling of the neck
tenderness
trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination
unsteadiness
watery or bloody diarrhea