If any of the following side effects occur while taking succimer, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Succimer may cause your urine, sweat, and feces to have an unpleasant odor.
Gastrointestinal side effects ( in children and  in adults) have included nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, appetite loss, hemorrhoidal symptoms, loose stools, and metallic taste in mouth.
Abdominal cramps and stomach pain have also been reported in patients receiving succimer (the active ingredient contained in Chemet) 
General side effects ( in children and  in adults) have included back pain, head pain, rib pain, chills, flank pain, fever, flu-like symptoms, heavy head/tired, head cold, headache, and moniliasis.
Metabolic side effects ( in children and  in adults) have included elevated serum cholesterol and increased proteinuria.
Hepatic side effects ( in children and  in adults) have included elevated SGPT, SGOT, and alkaline phosphatase.
Respiratory side effects ( in children and  in adults) have included rhinorrhea, nasal congestion, and cough.
Genitourinary side effects ( in adults) have included decreased urination and voiding difficulty.
Other side effects ( in children and  in adults) have included plugged ears, otitis media, and sore throat.
Dermatologic side effects ( in children and  in adults) have included papular rash, herpetic rash, rash, mucocutaneous eruptions, and pruritus.
Musculoskeletal side effects ( in adults) have included kneecap pain and leg pains.
Cardiovascular side effects ( in adults) have included arrhythmia.
Nervous system side effects ( in children and  in adults) have included drowsiness, dizziness, sensorimotor neuropathy, sleepiness, and paresthesia.
Ocular side effects ( in children and  in adults) have included cloudy film in eye and watery eyes.
Hematologic side effects ( in children and  in adults) have included mild to moderate neutropenia, increased platelet count, and intermittent eosinophilia.
Chills
fever
Diarrhea
loose stools
loss of appetite
nausea and vomiting 
skin rash