If any of the following side effects occur while taking clofibrate, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
In general, the most common adverse effects due to clofibrate therapy are gastrointestinal in nature (especially nausea) and may subside over time or with a decreased dosage.
Cholelithiasis and cholecystitis (sometimes requiring surgery or resulting in pancreatitis) occur more frequently in patients receiving clofibrate than in patients receiving placebo.
Gastrointestinal reactions may include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, gastritis, weight loss or gain, and gallstones (during prolonged therapy).
Patients diagnosed with rhabdomyolysis are usually asymptomatic clinically several days after discontinuing clofibrate, but the muscle enzymes may remain elevated for a more prolonged period.
Severe renal disease may increase the risk of myopathies, perhaps because of accumulation of the active metabolite clofibric acid.
Musculoskeletal effects (myopathy) typically occur as a "flu-like" syndrome (myalgia, cramps, muscle weakness, and arthralgia).
Rhabdomyolysis with an accompanying increase in creatinine kinase and creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) has been reported in patients with renal disease.
Electrolyte disturbances like hyperkalemia have been reported in patients with renal insufficiency who receive clofibrate.
Central nervous system depressant effects may include fatigue, weakness, drowsiness, and/or dizziness.
Headache has also been reported.
Hematologic adverse effects may include leukopenia, anemia, eosinophilia, agranulocytosis, and potentiation of anticoagulant effects.
Because of these effects, some clinicians recommend periodic monitoring of blood counts.
Cardiovascular complications may include various arrhythmias and altered angina pectoris.
Swelling and phlebitis have occurred at xanthomata sites.
Renal dysfunction (including dysuria, hematuria, proteinuria, and decreased urine output) has been reported.
Acute renal failure and interstitial nephritis have also been reported.
Decreased libido (primarily in men) and impotence have been reported.
Hepatic disorders may include elevated liver enzymes and/or hepatomegaly.
(Liver biopsy, when performed in this setting, is usually normal.
)  Clofibrate should be used cautiously for patients with a history of jaundice or liver disease.
Dermatologic reactions which occur in about 2% of patients may include urticaria, rash, dry skin, and alopecia.
Erythema multiforme, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome have occurred rarely.
One case of a hypersensitivity reaction occurring as eosinophilic pneumonia has been reported.
Fever, which occurred on rechallenge with clofibrate, has been reported in one case.
Oncologic effects of tumor growth in rodents have been associated with many lipid-lowering drugs.
Clofibrate has been associated with liver, pancreatic and testicular tumors in rats.
Long-term clinical trials are needed to define the risk of cancer in humans.
Chest pain
irregular heartbeat
shortness of breath
stomach pain (severe) with nausea and vomiting
Blood in urine
cough or hoarseness 
decrease in urination
fever or chills
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
swelling of feet or lower legs
Diarrhea
nausea
Decreased sexual ability
headache
increased appetite or weight gain (slight)
muscle aches or cramps
sores in mouth and on lips 
stomach pain, gas, or heartburn
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting