Common side effects of Clolar include: febrile neutropenia, herpes simplex infection, infection, oral candidiasis, pericardial effusion, pleural effusion, pneumonia, respiratory distress, sepsis, staphylococcal infection, abdominal pain, anxiety, arthralgia, back pain, cellulitis, confusion, constipation, cough, depression, dermatitis, diarrhea, dizziness, drowsiness, dyspnea, edema, epistaxis, erythrodysesthesia syndrome, fatigue, fever, gingival hemorrhage, headache, hematuria, hepatomegaly, hypertension, hypotension, jaundice, lethargy, limb pain, mucositis, myalgia, nausea, neutropenia, pain, petechia, pruritus, rigors, sore throat, tachycardia, transfusion reaction, tremor, vomiting, weight loss, anorexia, bacteremia, decreased appetite, erythema, flushing, irritability, pain at injection site, and xeroderma.
Other side effects include: increased serum creatinine.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking clofarabine, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Gastrointestinal side effects including vomiting (83%), nausea (75%), diarrhea (53%), abdominal pain (36%), anorexia (31%), constipation (21%), gingival bleeding (15%), sore throat (14%), and decreased appetite (11%) have been reported.
Postmarketing reports have included gastrointestinal hemorrhage some with fatalities.
A total of 85% of patients experienced at least one infection after clofarabine (the active ingredient contained in Clolar) treatment, including fungal, viral, and bacterial infections.
Other side effects have included infections and infestations such as sepsis (15%), staphylococcal infection (13%), oral candidiasis (13%), herpes simplex (11%), cellulitis (11%), bacteremia (10%), and pneumonia (10%).
Several cases of capillary leak syndrome have been reported.
(Signs and symptoms of cytokine release have included tachypnea, tachycardia, hypotension, and pulmonary edema.
)  Several patients developed rapid onset of respiratory distress, hypotension, capillary leak (pleural and pericardial effusions), and multi-organ failure.
Hematologic side effects including febrile neutropenia (57%), neutropenia (10%), transfusion reactions (10%) and bone marrow failure have been reported.
Dermatologic side effects including pruritus (47%), dermatitis (41%), petechiae (29%), erythema (18%), palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome (13%), contusion (11%), and dry skin (10%) have been reported.
Occurrences of Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) have been reported in patients who were receiving or had recently been treated with clofarabine (the active ingredient contained in Clolar) and other medications (e.
g.
allopurinol or antibiotics) known to cause these syndromes.
Nervous system side effects including headache (46%), dizziness (16%), somnolence (10%), and tremor (10%) have been reported.
Veno-occlusive disease has been reported in patients that received conditioning regimens that included busulfan, melphalan, and/or the combination of cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation.
Elevations of AST and ALT were transient and typically of less that 2 weeks duration.
Hepatic side effects including jaundice (15%), hepatomegaly (15%), and veno-occlusive disease have been reported.
Grade 3 or 4 elevated ALT (44%), grade 3 or 4 elevated AST (38%), and grade 3 or 4 elevated bilirubin (15%) have also been reported.
General side effects including pyrexia (41%), rigors (38%), fatigue (36%), edema (20%), pain (19%), mucosal inflammation (18%), lethargy (11%), decreased weight (10%) and systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) have been reported.
Cardiovascular side effects including pericardial effusion (35%), tachycardia (34%), left ventricular systolic dysfunction (27%), hypertension (3%), flushing (2%), and hypotension (1%) have been reported.
Respiratory side effects including epistaxis (31%), cough (19%), respiratory distress (14%), dyspnea (13%), and pleural effusion (10%) have been reported.
Musculoskeletal side effects including pain in limb (29%), myalgia (14%), back pain (13%), and arthralgia (11%) have been reported.
Psychiatric side effects have been reported including anxiety (22%), depression (11%), and irritability (11%).
Genitourinary side effects including hematuria (17%) have been reported.
Local side effects including injection site pain (14%) have been reported.
Renal side effects including grade 3 or 4 elevated creatinine (6%) have been reported.
Oncologic side effects have included clastogenic activity in the in vitro mammalian cell chromosome aberration assay (CHO cells) and in the in vivo rat micronucleus assay.
Abdominal or stomach pain or tenderness
area rash
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
bloody nose
blurred vision
burning or stinging of the skin
chest pain
chills
clay-colored stools
cold or flu-like symptoms
confusion
cough or hoarseness
dark urine
decreased urine output
diarrhea
difficult or labored breathing
dilated neck veins
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
facial swelling
fainting
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
feeling of warmth
fever
flushing, redness of the skin
headache
irregular breathing
itching
itching in the genital area
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
lightheadedness
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
nausea
nervousness
pain
painful cold sores or blisters on the lips, nose, eyes, or genitals
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
pounding in the ears
rapid, shallow breathing
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
redness, swelling, or skin pain
scaling of the skin on the hands and feet
severe abdominal or stomach cramps with pain
skin rash
slow or fast heartbeat
small red or purple spots on the skin
sneezing
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
sweating
swelling of the ankles, feet, or lower legs
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
swollen glands
tenderness
tightness in the chest
tingling of the hands and feet
troubled breathing with exertion
ulcers, sores, or white spots in the mouth
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusually warm skin
vomiting
vomiting of blood
warmth on the skin
watery and severe diarrhea, which may also be bloody
weight gain
yellow eyes or skin
Agitation
bloating
blue lips and fingernails
chest pain or discomfort
cloudy urine
constipation
coughing that sometimes produces a pink frothy sputum
darkened urine
decrease or increase in the amount of urine
decreased level of consciousness
depression
difficult, fast, or noisy breathing, sometimes with wheezing
dry mouth
general feeling of discomfort or illness
hives
hostility
hyperventilation
increased sweating
indigestion
irritability
muscle aches and pains
muscle twitching
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
rapid weight gain
restlessness
seizures (convulsions)
shaking
shivering
stuffy or runny nose
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, or hands
trouble sleeping
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
red irritated eyes
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
Back pain
bone pain
bruises on the skin
cracked lips
difficulty with moving
difficulty with swallowing
discouragement
dry skin
fear
feeling sad or empty
feeling unusually cold
injection site pain
itching, pain, redness, swelling, tenderness, or warmth on the skin at the injection site
lack or loss of strength
loss of interest or pleasure
muscle pain or stiffness
pain in the limbs
pain in the rectum
right upper stomach pain and fullness
skin discoloration
sore mouth or tongue
swollen joints
tiredness
trouble concentrating
unusual drowsiness, dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness
unusually warm skin
weight loss
white patches with diaper rash