In a clinical trial, safety of this drug was evaluated in therapy-naive patients using cobicistat-boosted atazanavir with emtricitabine-tenofovir.
The most commonly reported side effects were associated with elevated bilirubin levels including jaundice, ocular icterus, and nausea.
Study drug was discontinued due to side effects in  of patients in the cobicistat-boosted group;  discontinued due to bilirubin-related side effects.
In  clinical trial, hyperbilirubinemia (greater than  times the upper limit of normal [ x ULN]) was reported in  of patients in the cobicistat-boosted atazanavir group and  in the ritonavir-boosted atazanavir group.
Increases in total bilirubin greater than  x ULN was reported in  of patients in the cobicistat-boosted group and  in the ritonavir-boosted group.
Increases in total bilirubin greater than  x ULN was reported in  of patients in the cobicistat-boosted group and  in the ritonavir-boosted group.
Increased ALT or AST (greater than  x ULN) was reported in  of patients in the cobicistat-boosted group and  in the ritonavir-boosted group.
Increased ALT (greater than  x ULN), AST (greater than  x ULN), and GGT (greater than  x ULN) were reported in , , and  of patients in the cobicistat-boosted group, respectively.
Very common ( or more): Hyperbilirubinemia, increased total bilirubin, jaundice (up to ), increased ALT or ASTCommon ( to ): Increased ALT, increased AST, increased GGT
Very common ( or more): Ocular icterus (up to )
Increased serum amylase (greater than  x ULN) was reported in up to  of patients in the cobicistat-boosted group.
If serum amylase was greater than  x ULN, lipase was also measured.
Increased lipase (grades  to ) was reported in up to  of patients in the cobicistat-boosted group.
Very common ( or more): Nausea (up to )Common ( to ): Vomiting, diarrhea, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, abdominal distension, flatulence, dry mouth, increased lipase, increased serum amylaseFrequency not reported: Upper abdominal pain
Common ( to ): Increased creatine kinaseUncommon ( to ): MyalgiaFrequency not reported: Rhabdomyolysis
Increased creatine kinase (at least  x ULN) was reported in up to  of patients in the cobicistat-boosted group.
Increased urine RBC (greater than  RBC/high power field) and urine glucose (at least  mg/dL) have been reported in up to  and  of patients in the cobicistat-boosted group, respectively.
Common ( to ): Hematuria (increased urine RBC), glycosuria (increased urine glucose)Uncommon ( to ): Proteinuria
Nephrolithiasis has been reported with atazanavir.
In clinical trials, nephrolithiasis was reported in  of patients in the cobicistat-boosted group and no patients in the ritonavir-boosted group.
Onset of nephrolithiasis was about  weeks.
Renal impairment (including acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome) has been reported when this drug was used in regimen containing tenofovir.
Common ( to ): NephrolithiasisFrequency not reported: Decreased estimated CrCl, increased serum creatinine, tubular secretion of creatinine inhibited (actual renal glomerular function not affected), renal impairment (including acute renal failure, Fanconi syndrome), nephropathy, Fanconi syndrome acquired
Common ( to ): Headache, dizziness, somnolence, dysgeusia
Common ( to ): Hyperglycemia, increased appetiteFrequency not reported: Increased fasted total cholesterol, increased fasted high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, increased fasted low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, increased fasted triglycerides
Common ( to ): FatigueUncommon ( to ): Pyrexia, asthenia
Common ( to ): Insomnia, abnormal dreamsUncommon ( to ): Depression, sleep disorder
Common ( to ): Rash (rash events included allergic dermatitis, drug hypersensitivity, generalized pruritus, eosinophilic pustular folliculitis, rash, generalized rash, macular rash, maculopapular rash, morbilliform rash, papular rash, urticaria)Uncommon ( to ): Pruritus
Abdominal or stomach pain
bloody urine
chills
clay-colored stools
dark urine
decreased frequency or amount of urine
dizziness
fast heartbeat
fever
headache
hives or welts, itching, or rash
hoarseness
increased thirst
irritation
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
nausea and vomiting
pain in the groin or genitals
redness of the skin
sharp back pain just below the ribs
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, hands, lower legs, or feet
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing or swallowing
unpleasant breath odor
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood
weight gain
yellow eyes or skin
Dark-colored urine
muscle cramps or spasms
muscle pain or stiffness
Diarrhea
discouragement
feeling sad or empty
irritability
loss of interest or pleasure
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
upper abdominal or stomach pain