Corticosteroid complications are primarily dose and duration of therapy dependent.
Adverse effects have occurred less frequently at physiologic or lower pharmacologic dosages.
Adverse effects associated with duration of corticosteroid therapy include those occurring during short-term therapy (up to three weeks) or those occurring during long-term therapy (greater than three weeks).
Short-term effects have included sodium retention-related weight gain and fluid accumulation, hyperglycemia and glucose intolerance, hypokalemia, gastrointestinal upset and ulceration, reversible depression of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis, and mood changes including mild euphoria and insomnia, nervousness, restlessness, mania, catatonia, depression, delusions, hallucinations, and violent behavior.
Long-term effects have included hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal activity suppression, Cushingoid appearance, hirsutism or virilism, impotence, menstrual irregularities, peptic ulcer disease, cataracts and increased intraocular pressure/glaucoma, myopathy, osteoporosis, and vertebral compression fractures.
Cardiovascular effects such as hypertension and congestive heart failure due to long-term fluid retention as well as direct vascular effects have occurred during corticosteroid therapy.
Corticosteroid therapy may induce glucose intolerance by reducing the utilization of glucose in tissues and increasing hepatic glucose output.
Diabetes mellitus requiring diet modifications and hypoglycemic agents has developed in some patients.
Adrenal suppression can persist for up to twelve months after long-term corticosteroid therapy.
Giving corticosteroids once a day or once every other day may reduce adrenal suppression.
After corticosteroid therapy has been tapered, supplemental corticosteroid therapy during times of physical stress may be required.
Endocrine effects such as decreased glucose tolerance and hyperglycemia resulting in diabetes-like symptoms have occurred.
Hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal activity has been suppressed up to 12 months following long-term corticosteroid administration.
Cushingoid appearance commonly has occurred with chronic therapy.
Hirsutism or virilism, impotence, and menstrual irregularities may occur.
Gastrointestinal effects of corticosteroid therapy have included gastrointestinal upset, nausea, vomiting, and peptic ulcer disease.
Pancreatitis, ulcerative esophagitis, gastrointestinal perforation and hemorrhage have also been reported.
Gastrointestinal effects most commonly occurring during corticosteroid therapy have included nausea, vomiting, dyspepsia, and anorexia.
Peptic ulcer disease has been associated with long-term corticosteroid therapy, but is relatively uncommon.
Routine prophylactic therapy is not warranted in all individuals.
Aluminum/magnesium-containing antacids generally have been used to manage GI complaints without significant drug interactions.
Metabolic adverse effects including hypernatremia (rare), hypokalemia, fluid retention, negative nitrogen balance and increased blood urea nitrogen concentration have occurred during corticosteroid therapy.
Glucocorticoids have been reported to decrease the secretion of thyrotropin (TSH).
Musculoskeletal effects of corticosteroid therapy including myopathy, osteoporosis, vertebral compression fractures, tendon rupture (particularly the Achilles tendon), and aseptic necrosis of bone have been reported.
Aseptic necrosis has been reported most often to affect the femoral head.
Corticosteroid myopathy has presented as weakness and wasting of the proximal limb and girdle muscles and generally has been reversible following cessation of therapy.
Corticosteroids inhibit intestinal absorption and increase urinary excretion of calcium leading to bone resorption and bone loss.
Postmenopausal females are at risk of loss of bone density.
Sixteen percent of elderly patients treated with corticosteroids for 5 years may experience vertebral compression fractures.
Immunologic effects of corticosteroid therapy have included impairment in cell-mediated immunity and increased susceptibility to bacterial, viral, fungal and parasitic infections.
Immune response to skin tests may be suppressed.
Hepatic effects such as reversible increases in serum transaminase and alkaline phosphatase concentrations have occurred during corticosteroid therapy.
Hematologic effects have included thrombocytopenia, lymphopenia, and platelet alterations resulting in thrombolic events.
Dermatologic effects occurring during corticosteroid therapy have included increased ease in bruising, ecchymosis, petechiae striae, delayed wound healing, and acne.
Ocular changes with corticosteroid therapy have included increased intraocular pressure, glaucoma, and posterior subcapsular cataracts.
Psychiatric effects including psychoses, personality or behavioral changes, and pseudotumor cerebri have occurred/been exacerbated during corticosteroid therapy.
Bronchospasm after intravenous hydrocortisone (the active ingredient contained in Cortifoam) has been reported in some patients with aspirin-sensitive respiratory disease.
A challenge study with oral aspirin followed with 100 mg hydrocortisone (IV) resulted in respiratory reactions to aspirin in 45 of 53 patients.
These 45 patients then received a hydrocortisone challenge.
No naso-ocular, dermal, or respiratory reactions were noted in 44 of 45 patients administered hydrocortisone.
One aspirin-sensitive patient experienced bronchospasm and naso-ocular reactions to hydrocortisone and naso-ocular with minimal bronchospasm with methylprednisolone.
Following aspirin desensitization and while on maintenance aspirin therapy, this patient again reacted with similar symptoms to hydrocortisone.
Case reports of hypersensitivity reactions to corticosteroids have been relatively uncommon.
Side effects have included bronchospasm, shock, urticaria, and angioedema.
Cross-reactivity between aspirin and hydrocortisone in patients with aspirin-sensitive respiratory disease has been suggested as the mechanism in patients with asthma, however data are controversial.
Anaphylaxis has been most frequently associated with rapid injection or infusion of a high dose of corticosteroid.
Reactions may be mediated by an immune or nonimmune mechanism.
Pseudorheumatism or glucocorticoid-withdrawal syndrome not related to adrenal insufficiency has occurred on withdrawal of corticosteroids.
Patients experienced anorexia, nausea, vomiting, lethargy, headache, fever, arthralgias, myalgias, and postural hypotension.
Symptoms resolved when corticosteroid therapy was reinstated.
Aggression
anxiety
blurred vision
decrease in the amount of urine
dizziness
dry mouth
fast, slow, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
headache
irregular heartbeats
irritability
mental depression
mood changes
nervousness
noisy, rattling breathing
numbness or tingling in the arms or legs
pounding in the ears
restlessness
shaking
swelling of the fingers, hands, feet, or lower legs
trouble thinking, speaking, or walking
trouble breathing
troubled breathing at rest
trouble sleeping
weight gain
Abdominal or stomach cramping and/or burning (severe)
abdominal or stomach pain
backache
bloody, black, or tarry stools
cough or hoarseness
darkening of the skin
decrease in height
decreased vision
diarrhea
eye pain
eye tearing
facial hair growth in females
fainting
fever or chills
flushed, dry skin
fractures
fruit-like breath odor
full or round face, neck, or trunk
heartburn or indigestion (severe and continuous)
increased hunger
increased thirst
increased urination
loss of appetite
loss of sexual desire or ability
lower back or side pain
menstrual irregularities
muscle pain or tenderness
muscle wasting or weakness
nausea
pain in the back, ribs, arms, or legs
painful or difficult urination
skin rash
sweating
trouble healing
unexplained weight loss
unusual tiredness or weakness
vision changes
vomiting
vomiting of material that looks like coffee grounds
Increased appetite
Abnormal fat deposits on the face, neck, and trunk
acne
dry scalp
lightening of normal skin color
red face
reddish purple lines on the arms, face, legs, trunk, or groin
swelling of the stomach area
thinning of the scalp hair