Cardiovascular side effects have included edema and congestive heart failure.
Endocrine side effects have included the inhibition of estrogen synthesis, resulting in flushing, sweating, vaginal dryness and irritation, and reduction in breast size.
During administration of danazol (the active ingredient contained in Danocrine)  endogenous testosterone synthesis and release may be inhibited through feedback inhibition of pituitary luteinizing hormone (LH).
Large doses of danazol may suppress spermatogenesis through inhibition of pituitary follicle stimulating hormone (FSH).
Danazol may decrease levels of thyroxine-binding globulin, resulting in decreased total T serum levels and increased resin uptake of T and T  Free thyroid hormone levels remain unchanged and there is no clinical evidence of thyroid dysfunction.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea and vomiting.
Rare cases of pancreatitis have been reported.
Genitourinary side effects have included oligospermia and decreased ejaculatory volume.
Elderly male patients may experience prostatic enlargement resulting in urinary obstruction.
Priapism and excessive stimulation may develop.
In female patients, the use of danazol (the active ingredient contained in Danocrine) may result in virilization including deepening voice, hirsutism, acne, clitomegaly (rare), and menstrual abnormalities.
Discontinuation of medication at signs of mild virilization may prevent irreversible virilization.
Alterations in libido may occur (increased/decreased).
Hematologic side effects have included thromboembolic and thrombophlebotic events (including sagittal sinus thrombosis), some resulting in fatal strokes, and increased red cell production.
Metabolic side effects have included significant increases in low density lipoproteins (LDL) and decreases in high density lipoproteins (HDL).
Decreased glucose tolerance requiring adjustments in hyperglycemic control has occurred.
Other side effects in female patients have included virilization, including deepening voice, hirsutism, acne, clitomegaly (rare), and menstrual abnormalities, due the androgenic activity of danazol (the active ingredient contained in Danocrine)   Discontinuation of danazol at signs of mild virilization may prevent irreversible virilization.
Reduction in breast size may occur due to decreased estrogen synthesis.
Renal side effects have included the retention of nitrogen, sodium, potassium, chloride, water and phosphorus, and decreased urinary excretion of calcium.
Oncologic side effects have included rare cases of hepatic neoplasms following prolonged use.
Hepatic side effects have included life-threatening peliosis hepatitis and benign hepatic adenoma following prolonged danazol (the active ingredient contained in Danocrine) administration.
Rare cases of hepatic neoplasms following prolonged use have been reported.
Danazol can exacerbate acute intermittent porphyria.
Serum transaminase levels may be increased.
Acne
dark-colored urine
increased oiliness of the hair or skin
muscle cramps or spasms
rapid weight gain
swelling of the feet or lower legs
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bleeding gums
bloating, pain, or tenderness of the abdomen or stomach
blood in the urine
burning, numbness, pain, or tingling in all fingers except the smallest finger
changes in vision
chest pain
chills
complete or partial numbness or weakness on one side of body
cough
coughing up blood
diarrhea
difficulty with speaking
difficulty with swallowing
discharge from the nipple
eye pain
fast heartbeat
fever
headache
hives or other skin rash
joint pain
light-colored stools
loss of appetite (continuing)
loss of muscle coordination
more frequent nosebleeds
muscle aches
nausea
purple- or red-colored, or other spots on the body or inside the mouth or nose
restlessness
shortness of breath
sore throat
sweating
tingling, numbness, or weakness in the legs, which may move upward to the arms, trunk, or face
unusual bruising or bleeding
unusual tiredness, weakness, or general feeling of illness
vomiting
yellow eyes or skin
Decrease in the breast size
irregular menstrual periods
weight gain
Enlarged clitoris
hoarseness or deepening of voice
unnatural hair growth
Changes in semen
decrease in the size of the testicles
Flushing or redness of the skin
mood or mental changes
nervousness
Increased sensitivity of the skin to sunlight
Burning, dryness, or itching of the vagina
vaginal bleeding