Common side effects of DaunoXome include: back pain, chest tightness, fever, and flushing.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Liposomal daunorubicin causes the urine to turn reddish in color, which may stain clothes.
This is not blood.
It is to be expected and only lasts for  or  days after each dose is given.
This medicine often causes a temporary and total loss of hair.
After treatment with liposomal daunorubicin has ended, normal hair growth should return.
In general the two main dose-limiting toxicities are myelosuppression and cumulative cardiotoxicity.
Acute febrile drug reactions have occurred in up to  of patients (probably represent reactions to histamine release), but are not generally observed with steroid and other premedications.
The main metabolite, daunorubicinol, has only approximately /th the toxicity of the parent compound.
Hematologic toxicity can be expected after therapeutic doses and is a dose-limiting toxicity of daunorubicin.
Daunorubicin is a potent bone marrow suppressant, and can cause significant reductions in all bone marrow cell lines for one to two weeks after therapy.
Persistent, severe myelosuppression may result in superinfection, hemorrhage, and/or death.
In a study with HIV-related Kaposi's sarcoma patients (n=), neutropenia of  cells/mm or less was reported in  of patients and neutropenia of less than  cells/mm was reported in .
Causality was difficult to establish due to concurrent medications and disease complications.
In one patient with Kaposi's sarcoma, congestive heart failure has been reported at a cumulative dose of  mg/m  In eight Kaposi's sarcoma patients, left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) decreases have been reported at cumulative doses ranging from  mg/m to  mg/m (median dose of  mg/m) of daunorubicin liposomal (the active ingredient contained in DaunoXome)   Congestive heart failure has been reported at a cumulative dose as low as  mg/m in clinical studies in malignancies other than Kaposi's sarcoma and treated with greater than the recommend dose of  mg/m of daunorubicin liposomal.
Patients who have received prior therapy with anthracyclines (doxorubicin > mg/m or equivalent), have preexisting cardiac disease, or have received previous radiotherapy encompassing the heart may be more susceptible to cardiac adverse events.
It is recommended that monitoring of LVEF occur prior to therapy and every  mg/m for these patients.
Cardiovascular toxicity has included congestive heart failure, pericardial effusion, pericardial tamponade, ventricular extrasystoles, cardiac arrest, sinus tachycardia, atrial fibrillation, pulmonary hypertension, myocardial infarction, supraventricular tachycardia, angina pectoris, hot flushes, hypertension, palpitation, syncope, and tachycardia in  or fewer patients (n=).
Additionally, edema ( mild/moderate,  severe) and chest pain ( mild/moderate,  severe) have been reported.
Dermatologic side effects have included reversible alopecia ( mild,  moderate) and pruritus ( mild/moderate).
Urticaria , folliculitis, dry skin, seborrhea have been reported in  or fewer patients (n=).
Chemical thrombophlebitis and local necrosis have occurred in cases of extravasation.
Cases of palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome (hand-foot syndrome) have been reported in  patients receiving high dose daunorubicin liposomal (the active ingredient contained in DaunoXome) therapy ( to  mg/m daily for  days) in combination with cytarabine, and in one patient receiving recommended doses ( mg/m).
Gastrointestinal side effects have included  nausea ( mild,  moderate,  severe), diarrhea ( mild/moderate,  severe), abdominal pain ( mild/moderate,  severe), vomiting ( mild,  moderate,  severe), anorexia ( mild/moderate,  severe), stomatitis ( mild/moderate,  severe), constipation ( mild/moderate), and tenesmus ( mild/moderate,  severe).
Increase appetite, dysphagia, GI hemorrhage, gastritis, gingival bleeding, hemorrhoids, hepatomegaly, melena, dry mouth, and tooth caries have been reported in  or fewer patients (n=).
Local side effects have included thrombophlebitis and necrosis following extravasation, and injection site inflammation (
Hepatic serum transaminase and bilirubin concentration elevations have been transiently observed.
Renal side effects have rarely included new or worsened renal insufficiency, probably associated with hyperuricemia and/or dehydration.
One case report describes chest and back pain in a patient receiving a -hour infusion of high dose daunorubicin liposomal (the active ingredient contained in DaunoXome) ( mg/m).
Back pain, flushing, and chest tightness (generally occurring during the first five minutes of therapy) have been reported in  of patients treated in Phase III clinical trials and in  of treatment cycles.
Immunologic side effects have included reports of opportunistic infections in  of patients with HIV-related Kaposi's sarcoma (n=).
The median time to the first opportunistic illness was  days.
Causality was difficult to determine due to disease complications and multiple concurrent medications.
Nervous system side effects have included fatigue ( mild/moderate,  severe), headache ( mild/moderate,  severe), neuropathy ( mild/moderate,  severe), and dizziness ( mild/moderate), depression ( mild/moderate,  severe) insomnia ( mild/moderate).
Amnesia, anxiety, ataxia, confusion, convulsions, emotional lability, abnormal gait, hallucination, hyperkinesia, hypertonia, meningitis, somnolence, abnormal thinking, tremor, taste perversion, deafness, earache, and tinnitus have been reported in  or fewer patients (n=).
Metabolic side effects have included dehydration and thirst in  or fewer patients (n=).
Respiratory side effects have included dyspnea ( mild/moderate,  severe), cough ( mild/moderate,  severe), rhinitis ( mild/moderate), and sinusitis ( mild/moderate).
Hemoptysis, hiccups, pulmonary infiltration, and increased sputum have been reported in  or fewer patients (n=).
Ocular side effects have included abnormal vision ( mild.
/moderate,  severe), conjunctivitis (
Genitourinary side effects have included dysuria, nocturia and polyuria in  or fewer patients (n=).
Endocrine side effects have included increased sweating ( mild/moderate,  severe).
Other side effects have included malaise ( mild/moderate,  severe), influenza-like symptoms ( mild/moderate), lymphadenopathy (
Musculoskeletal side effects have included rigors ( mild/moderate), back pain ( mild/moderate), arthralgia ( mild/moderate), and myalgia ( mild/moderate).
Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported ( mild/moderate,  severe) (n=).
Cough or hoarseness
fever or chills 
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
shortness of breath 
sore throat
troubled breathing
weakness or numbness in arms or legs
Black, tarry stools
blood in urine or stools
bloody vomit
chest pain
coughing up blood
fainting
fast heartbeat
irregular heartbeat
pinpoint red spots on skin
producing large amounts of pale, dilute urine
sores in mouth and on lips
swelling of abdomen, face, fingers, hands, feet, or lower legs
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual nighttime urination 
unusual tiredness or weakness
weight gain
Abdominal pain
back pain
chest tightness
diarrhea
feeling unusually cold
flushing
headache
nausea and vomiting
shivering
skin rash or itching
Bleeding after defecation
bleeding gums
constipation
difficulty swallowing
dizziness
dry mouth
dry, irritated, itching, or red eyes
extreme feeling of sleepiness
eye pain 
frequent urge to defecate
pain in joints or muscles
pain at site of injection 
painful, red, hot, or irritated hair follicles 
red, hot, or irritated skin at site of injection 
ringing sound in ears
sleeplessness
swelling or lump under skin at site of injection
tooth pain
uncomfortable swelling around anus
uncontrollable movement of body
Black, tarry stools
blood in urine or stools
cough or hoarseness
fever or chills
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
pinpoint red spots on skin
sore throat
sores in mouth and on lips
unusual bleeding or bruising 