Commonly reported side effects of delavirdine include: skin rash and nausea.
Other side effects include: diarrhea, fatigue, headache, increased serum alanine aminotransferase, and increased serum aspartate aminotransferase.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking delavirdine, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
The majority of adverse effects were mild to moderate in intensity during clinical trials with delavirdine alone or with other antiretroviral agents.
Dermatologic effects, primarily rash, are the most common adverse effects observed and have occurred in approximately  of patients enrolled in Phase I and Phase II clinical trials assessing combination therapy with delavirdine.
Rash has reportedly appeared in up to  of patients in other clinical trials.
In Phase I and II trials, delavirdine treatment was discontinued in  of treated patients secondary to drug rash and severe rash occurred in  of patients.
Rash (typically occurring on the upper body and proximal arms) presents within  to  weeks of therapy as diffuse, maculopapular, erythematous, and often pruritic.
It occurs more frequently in patients with lower CD counts.
Dose titration does not significantly reduce the incidence of rash and, furthermore, is not recommended due to the rapid development of delavirdine resistant HIV strains when subpotent dosages are administered.
Most cases resolve within  weeks and do not require discontinuation of delavirdine.
Symptomatic treatment such as diphenhydramine or topical corticosteroids has provided relief in some cases.
Dermatologic side effects have included grade  rash (erythema, pruritus; ), grade  rash (diffuse maculopapular rash, dry desquamation; ), and grade  rash (vesiculation, moist desquamation, ulceration; ).
During clinical trials of delavirdine with other antiretroviral agents, rashes ( to ), epidermal cyst, sebaceous cyst, angioedema, dermal leukocytoclastic vasculitis, dermatitis, desquamation, diaphoresis, discolored skin, dry skin, erythema, folliculitis, fungal dermatitis, hair loss, herpes zoster or simplex, nail disorder, petechiae, non-application site pruritus, seborrhea, skin hypertrophy, skin disorder, skin nodule, urticaria, vesiculobullous rash, and wart have been reported.
Erythema multiforme and Stevens-Johnson syndrome occurred rarely and typically resolved with the discontinuation of delavirdine.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea ( to ), vomiting ( to ), diarrhea ( to ), and generalized abdominal pain ( to ) during clinical trials of delavirdine with other antiretroviral agents.
Abdominal cramps, abdominal distention, localized abdominal pain, anorexia, constipation, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux, bloody stool, colitis, increased or decreased appetite, Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, diverticulitis, dry mouth, dyspepsia, dysphagia, all levels of enteritis, eructation, fecal incontinence, flatulence, gagging, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, gastrointestinal disorder, gingivitis, gum hemorrhage, increased saliva, increased thirst, ulcers or inflammation of the mouth or tongue, oral/enteric moniliasis, rectal disorder, sialadenitis, tooth abscess, toothache, and taste perversion have also been reported.
Other side effects have included asthenia/fatigue ( to ), fever ( to ), flu syndrome ( to ), and localized pain ( to ) during clinical trials of delavirdine with other antiretroviral agents.
Abscess, chills, generalized or localized edema, infection, viral infection, lip edema, malaise, Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection, neck rigidity, ear pain, parosmia, otitis media, and tinnitus have also been reported.
Hematologic side effects have included adenopathy, bruising, eosinophilia, granulocytosis, leukopenia, pancytopenia, purpura, spleen disorder, thrombocytopenia, prolonged prothrombin time (greater than  times ULN), decreased hemoglobin (less than  mg/dL) and neutrophils (less than /mm), and increased activated partial thromboplastin (greater than  times ULN) during clinical trials of delavirdine with other antiretroviral agents.
Hemolytic anemia has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Respiratory side effects have included upper respiratory infection ( to ), sinusitis ( to ), bronchitis ( to ), cough ( to ), pharyngitis ( to ), chest congestion, dyspnea, epistaxis, hiccups, laryngismus, pneumonia, and rhinitis during clinical trials of delavirdine with other antiretroviral agents.
Hepatic side effects have included increased alanine transaminase (ALT/SGPT; greater than  times ULN), aspartate transaminase (AST/SGOT; greater than  times ULN), gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT; greater than  times ULN), and bilirubin (greater than  times ULN), hepatomegaly, jaundice, nonspecific hepatitis, and pancreatitis during clinical trials of delavirdine with other antiretroviral agents.
Hepatic failure has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Metabolic side effects have included alcohol intolerance, increased amylase (greater than  times ULN), bilirubinemia, hyperglycemia (greater than  mg/dL), hypoglycemia (less than  mg/dL), hyperkalemia, hypertriglyceridemia, hyperuricemia, hypocalcemia, hyponatremia, hypophosphatemia, increased lipase, increased serum alkaline phosphatase, increased serum creatinine, and increased or decreased weight during clinical trials of delavirdine with other antiretroviral agents.
Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement, peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and "cushingoid appearance" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy.
Psychiatric side effects have included depressive symptoms ( to ), anxiety ( to ), insomnia ( to ), decreased libido, euphoria, hallucination, paranoid symptoms, nervousness, manic symptoms, and emotional lability during clinical trials of delavirdine with other antiretroviral agents.
Nervous system side effects have included headache ( to ), abnormal coordination, agitation, amnesia, change in dreams, cognitive impairment, confusion, disorientation, dizziness, hyperesthesia, hyperreflexia, hypertonia, hypesthesia, impaired concentration, neuropathy, nystagmus, paralysis, restlessness, sleep cycle disorder, somnolence, tingling, tremor, vertigo, and weakness during clinical trials of delavirdine with other antiretroviral agents.
Cardiovascular side effects have included abnormal cardiac rate and rhythm, cardiac insufficiency, cardiomyopathy, hypertension, migraine, pallor, peripheral vascular disorder, and postural hypotension during clinical trials of delavirdine with other antiretroviral agents.
Renal side effects have included renal calculi and renal pain during clinical trials of delavirdine with other antiretroviral agents.
Acute renal failure has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Ocular side effects have included blepharitis, blurred vision, conjunctivitis, diplopia, dry eyes, and photophobia during clinical trials of delavirdine with other antiretroviral agents.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgia or arthritis of single and multiple joints, bone disorder, bone pain, myalgia, tendon disorder, tenosynovitis, tetany, and muscle cramp during clinical trials of delavirdine with other antiretroviral agents.
Rhabdomyolysis has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Genitourinary side effects have included amenorrhea, breast enlargement, epididymitis, hemospermia, impotence, metrorrhagia, testicular pain, vaginal moniliasis, hematuria, chromaturia, impaired urination, nocturia, polyuria, proteinuria, and urinary tract infection during clinical trials of delavirdine with other antiretroviral agents.
Immunologic side effects have included immune reconstitution syndrome.
Autoimmune disorders (, Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barre syndrome) have been reported in the setting of immune reconstitution.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included allergic reaction during clinical trials of delavirdine with other antiretroviral agents.
Skin rash (severe) with itching
Skin rash with symptoms such as fever, blistering, oral lesions, conjunctivitis, swelling, muscle aches, or joint aches
Difficulty in breathing
Agitation
back, leg, or stomach pains 
bleeding gums
chills 
coma
confusion
dark urine
decreased urine output
depression
difficulty breathing
dizziness
fatigue
fever
general body swelling
headache
hostility
irritability 
lethargy
loss of appetite 
muscle twitching
nausea 
nosebleeds
pale skin 
rapid weight gain
seizures (convulsions)
sore throat
stupor
swelling of face, ankles, or hands
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting 
yellowing of the eyes or skin
Body aches or pain
cough
diarrhea
discouragement
ear congestion
fear
feeling sad or empty
general feeling of discomfort or illness
joint pain
lack or loss of strength
loss of interest or pleasure 
loss of voice
muscle aches and pains
nasal congestion
nervousness
pain, localized 
pain or tenderness around eyes and cheekbones
runny nose
shivering
shortness of breath
sneezing
sweating
tightness in chest
tiredness
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
wheezing
Abdominal pain, generalized 
dryness or soreness of throat
hoarseness
sleeplessness
tender, swollen glands in neck
trouble in swallowing
unable to sleep 
voice changes