Gastrointestinal side effects may occur in up to 20% of patients treated with diflunisal and include nausea (3% to 9%), dyspepsia (3% to 9%), gastrointestinal pain (3% to 9%), diarrhea (3% to 9%), vomiting, constipation, and flatulence.
Peptic ulceration, gastrointestinal bleeding, and perforation have also been reported.
Diflunisal doses of 500 to 1000 mg per day have not been associated with an increase in fecal blood loss.
In one study, diflunisal 2000 mg per day was associated with a 3-fold increase in fecal blood loss while aspirin 1300 mg per day was associated with a 6-fold increase in fecal blood loss compared to placebo.
Despite these results, serious, sometimes fatal, gastrointestinal events are reported.
Gastrointestinal ulcers, bleeding, and perforation occur in 2% to 4% of patients treated for up to one year.
Patients with a history of serious gastrointestinal events or alcohol abuse are at increased risk for severe gastrointestinal side effects.
Diflunisal should be used with caution in these patients.
Renal side effects include acute renal failure due to interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, hematuria, and proteinuria.
Renal decompensation has also been reported.
Diflunisal may impair the ability of the kidney to cope with low renal blood flow states due to inhibition of prostaglandin-dependent afferent arteriolar vasodilation.
Renal function may be further compromised in patients with heart failure, hypovolemia, cirrhosis, nephrotic syndrome, or hypoalbuminemia.
Additional risk factors for diflunisal-induced renal insufficiency are advanced age and concomitant use of diuretics.
Diflunisal inhibits platelet prostaglandin synthetase in a dose-dependent manner.
Doses of 250 mg twice a day had no effect on platelet function.
Doses of 500 mg twice a day has a slight inhibitory effect.
Doses of 1000 mg twice a day significantly inhibited platelet function.
Unlike aspirin, diflunisal inhibition of platelet function is reversible.
Hematologic side effects have included a dose-dependent inhibition of platelet function by diflunisal, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, and hemolytic anemia.
A case of febrile neutropenia has also been described in the literature.
Dermatologic side effects have included rash (3% to 9%), erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, fixed drug eruption, pruritus, dry mucous membranes, stomatitis, and photosensitivity.
In addition, a case of lichenoid photoreactive epidermal necrosis has been reported.
Hepatic side effects include elevations in liver function tests in up to 15% of patients.
Significant elevations (three times normal values) occur in 1% of patients.
Rare cases of cholestasis and hepatitis have been reported.
Hepatic side effects have included reports of liver function abnormalities, jaundice, cholestasis, and hepatitis.
A multisystem hypersensitivity syndrome has been described by the manufacturer.
Fever, chills, and dermatologic findings are noted.
In addition, elevations in liver function test, jaundice, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, disseminated intravascular coagulation, and renal dysfunction as well as arthralgia, myalgia, malaise, anorexia, and disorientation may be present.
In the event that a hypersensitivity syndrome is suspected, diflunisal should be discontinued.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included anaphylactoid reactions with bronchospasm, angioedema, and flushing in less than 1% of patients, and hypersensitivity vasculitis.
In addition, a hypersensitivity syndrome, which may be life-threatening, has been reported.
Necrotizing fasciitis has been reported rarely and may be fatal.
The presence of Group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus may be a contributing factor in these cases.
Cardiovascular side effects have been reported rarely, and direct causality could not be established.
These have included chest pain, palpitation, and syncope.
Metabolic abnormalities include a case report of pseudoporphyria.
Salicylates have been reported to displace triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) from protein binding sites.
The initial effect is an increase in serum free T4 concentrations.
Psychiatric side effects have included reports of somnolence, insomnia, nervousness, depression, hallucinations, confusion, and disorientation.
Nervous system side effects have included reports of dizziness, headache, vertigo, light-headedness, and paresthesias.
Rare reports of fulminant necrotizing fasciitis, sometimes with fatal outcomes, have been described in persons with group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus, who are also receiving nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, including diflunisal.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included rare reports of muscle cramps, asthenia, fatigue and tiredness.
Ocular side effects have included transient visual disturbances including blurred vision.
Respiratory side effects have included reports of dyspnea.
Genitourinary side effects have included reports of dysuria.
Stomach cramps or pain
Back or leg pains
bleeding gums
blistering, peeling, loosening of skin
bloody or black, tarry stools
bloody or cloudy urine
blurred or loss of vision
burning feeling in chest or stomach
burning while urinating
clay-colored stools
constipation
cough or hoarseness
cracks in the skin
dark-colored urine
diarrhea
difficult or painful urination
difficulty breathing
difficulty swallowing
disturbed color perception
dizziness
double vision
facial swelling
fast heartbeat
feeling of warmth
fever with or without chills
flu-like symptoms
general body swelling
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
greatly decreased frequency of urination or amount of urine
halos around lights
headache
hives
increased blood pressure
increased thirst
indigestion
itching
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, sex organs
light-colored stools
liver function abnormalities
loss of appetite
loss of heat from the body
lower back or side pain
muscle aches, pains, or weakness
nausea or vomiting
night blindness
noisy breathing
nosebleeds
overbright appearance of lights
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips or tongue
red, irritated eyes
redness of the face, neck, arms and occasionally, upper chest
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, swollen skin
scaly skin
severe or continuing stomach pain
shortness of breath
skin rash
sores, ulcers, or white spots in mouth or on lips
sore throat
stomach upset
swelling of face, fingers, feet or lower legs
swollen lymph nodes
tenderness in stomach area
tightness in chest
troubled breathing
tunnel vision
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
upper right abdominal pain
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
weight gain
wheezing
yellow eyes or skin
Change in consciousness
confusion about identity, place, and time
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in ears
decreased awareness or responsiveness
deep or fast breathing with dizziness
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
hearing loss
loss of consciousness
numbness of feet, hands, and around mouth
severe sleepiness
sweating
Acid or sour stomach
belching
heartburn
indigestion
stomach discomfort or upset
Bloated, full feeling
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
discouragement
dry mucous membranes
excess air or gas in stomach or intestines
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
feeling sad or empty
increased sensitivity of skin to sunlight
irritability
lack or loss of strength
lightheadedness
loss of interest or pleasure
mood or mental changes
nervousness
passing gas
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
sensation of spinning
severe sunburn
sleeplessness
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
tiredness
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep
weight loss