Common (1% to 10%): Headache, fatigue, dizzinessRare (less than 0.
1%): Vertigo, tinnitus
Rare cases of interstitial nephritis have been associated with the use of HCTZ.
Although HCTZ has been used to treat nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, a case report in which the drug was believed to have caused this condition has been reported.
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Nausea, diarrhea, rash, acute pulmonary edema, interstitial nephritis or cystitis, anaphylaxis
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Renal insufficiency, azotemia
In multiple-dose studies in hypertensive patients with stable renal insufficiency and renovascular hypertension, the use of valsartan alone had no clinically significant effects of glomerular filtrate rate, filtration fraction, creatinine clearance, or renal plasma flow.
The use of HCTZ has been associated with the development of pre-renal azotemia.
Pretreatment volume repletion is recommended prior to initiating therapy.
Chest pain was reported in more than 2% of patients who were taking this combination drug in controlled trials, but this incidence was not significantly different compared with the incidence of chest pain among placebo patients.
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Palpitations, chest pain, angioedemaFrequency not reported: Cardiac arrhythmias (including ventricular ectopy and complete AV heart block)
Angiotensin II receptor blockade, unlike ACE inhibition, has no impact on the processing of peptides such as bradykinin and substance P, two peptides able to induce cough.
Bronchospasm, dyspnea, and epistaxis have rarely been associated with the use of this drug.
Common (1% to 10%): Cough (valsartan component)Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Dyspnea, acute pulmonary edema
Frequency not reported: Erythema annular centrifugum, acute eczematous dermatitis, morbilliform, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, phototoxic dermatitis, subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus-like condition, pruritus, rash
Since HCTZ may increase total serum cholesterol by 11%, LDL lipoprotein cholesterol by 12%, and VLDL lipoprotein cholesterol levels by 50%, and may reduce insulin secretion, it should be used with caution in diabetic patients and in those with hypercholesterolemia.
True glucose intolerance may develop in approximately 3% of patients.
It is typically reversible within six months after discontinuation of therapy.
Hyperuricemia may be an important consideration in patients with a history of gout.
Hypophosphatemia and low serum magnesium concentrations may occur, but are usually clinically insignificant except in malnourished patients.
Rare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): Hypokalemia, hyperkalemia, metabolic alkalosis, hyponatremia, hypomagnesemia, hypercalcemia, hyperglycemia, elevated serum uric acid levels, elevated serum cholesterol
Thiazide diuretics may increase serum cholesterol and triglycerides, resulting in an increased risk of cholesterol gallstone formation.
Reports of bowel strictures associated with thiazide ingestion were reported in the 1960s (although patients in these reports were on a combination HCTZ-potassium product).
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Diarrhea, constipation, appetite changes, dry mouth, dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting, flatulence, pancreatitis, cholecystitis
Rare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): Allergic vasculitis, hemolytic anemia
Frequency not reported: Glucose intolerance, altered lipid profile
Use of valsartan alone has not been associated with significant changes in serum lipids or glucose concentrations.
However, use of HCTZ may be associated with increases in total serum cholesterol by 11%, LDL lipoprotein cholesterol by 12%, and VLDL lipoprotein cholesterol levels by 50%.
In addition, use of HCTZ may be associated with reduced insulin secretion.
Therefore, caution is recommended when giving this combination drug to diabetic patients or those with hypercholesterolemia.
Hyperuricemia may be an important consideration in patients with a history of gout.
Hypophosphatemia and low serum magnesium concentrations may occur, but are usually clinically insignificant except in malnourished patients.
A prospective study of 34 patients who received oral thiazide diuretics for 14 years without interruption revealed significantly increased average fasting blood glucose levels.
Withdrawal of thiazide therapy for 7 months in 10 of the patients resulted in average reductions of 10% in fasting blood glucose and 25% in 2-hour glucose tolerance test values.
A control group was not reported.
Common (1% to 10%): Back pain, muscle cramps, myalgia
Common (1% to 10%): NeutropeniaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Hematocrit decreased, hemoglobin decreasedRare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): Immune complex hemolytic anemiaPostmarketing reports: Thrombocytopenia
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Anxiety, depression, decreased libido, insomnia, paresthesias, somnolence
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Impotence, dysuria
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Increases in hepatic enzymes (usually reversible)
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Abnormal vision, idiosyncratic reactions to hydrochlorothiazide resulting in acute transient myopia and acute angle-closure glaucoma
Cold or flu-like symptoms
difficulty with swallowing
sore throat
tender or swollen lymph nodes in the neck
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bloating or stomach pain
blurred vision
chills
eye pain
fainting
fever
flushing
itching, pain, redness, or swelling of the eye or eyelid
joint stiffness or swelling, especially if sudden
nausea
skin rash or hives
trouble with breathing or wheezing
vomiting
watering of the eyes
yellow eyes or skin
Confusion
convulsions (seizures)
dark urine
decreased urine output
dizziness
drowsiness
dry mouth
fast or irregular heartbeat
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
light-colored stools
lightheadedness
muscle cramps or spasms
muscle pain or stiffness
nervousness
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
thirst
weakness or heaviness of the legs
Cough
diarrhea (mild)
headache
Anxiety
increased sensitivity to sunlight
increased sweating
redness of the face or neck
reduced sexual performance or drive
Hair loss or thinning of the hair