Other dosage forms:
Hyperuricemia may be an important consideration in patients with a history of gout.
Hypophosphatemia and low serum magnesium concentrations may occur, but are usually clinically insignificant except in malnourished patients.
Rare cases of the milk-alkali syndrome (hypercalcemia, metabolic alkalosis, and renal insufficiency)  have been associated with chlorothiazide (the active ingredient contained in Diuril) Chlorothiazide-induced hypercalcemia appears to depend on circulating parathyroid hormone.
Metabolic changes associated with chlorothiazide, as with other thiazide diuretics, are relatively common, especially when daily doses greater than 500 mg are used.
Mild hypokalemia (decrease of 0.
5 mEq/L) occurs in up to 50%, and may predispose patients to cardiac arrhythmias.
Metabolic alkalosis, hyponatremia, hypomagnesemia, hypophosphatemia, hypercalcemia, hyperglycemia, hypercholesterolemia, and hyperuricemia are also relatively common.
Cardiovascular complications of diuretic therapy include orthostatic hypotension secondary to intravascular volume depletion.
This has resulted in syncope and, in some patients with glaucoma, temporary loss of vision.
Rare cases of cerebrovascular accident associated with thiazide-induced diuresis have been reported.
Thiazides may induce allergic reactions in patients who are allergic to sulfonamides.
Hypersensitivity reactions usually involve the skin (cutaneous vasculitis, urticaria, rash, purpura), but may involve the gastrointestinal system (nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea), the genitourinary system (interstitial nephritis), and the respiratory system (acute noncardiogenic pulmonary edema, pneumonitis).
Thiazide diuretics may induce phototoxic dermatitis.
Dermatologic reactions may indicate hypersensitivity to the drug.
Erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, exfoliative dermatitis (including toxic epidermal necrolysis), and alopecia have been reported in rare cases.
Gastrointestinal problems include diarrhea, vomiting, constipation or abdominal pain in approximately 5% of patients.
Thiazide diuretics have been associated with acute cholecystitis and rare cases of pancreatitis.
A retrospective case-control drug surveillance study has revealed the relative risk of acute cholecystitis associated with the use of a thiazide diuretic is 2.
0.
The suspected explanation for this association is the potentially deleterious effect thiazides have on the serum lipid profile.
Chlorothiazide-induced hypercholesterolemia or hypertriglyceridemia may enhance the formation of some types of gallstones.
Renal side effects including new or worsened renal insufficiency associated with chlorothiazide (the active ingredient contained in Diuril) therapy is a probable sign of intravascular volume depletion, and serves as a signal to reduce or withhold therapy.
Rare cases of allergic interstitial nephritis have been associated with chlorothiazide.
Endocrinologic changes associated with chlorothiazide (the active ingredient contained in Diuril)  as with other thiazide diuretic agents, include decreased glucose tolerance and a potentially deleterious effect on the lipid profile.
This may be important in some patients with or who are at risk for diabetes or coronary artery disease.
Hematologic side effects are rare.
Rare cases of immune-complex hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, and thrombocytopenia have been associated with thiazide diuretics.
Musculoskeletal cramping or spasms have occasionally been reported during chlorothiazide (the active ingredient contained in Diuril) diuresis.
Genitourinary problems have been limited to rare complaints of impotence among male patients.
intravenous powder for solution
Abdominal or stomach pain
back, leg, or stomach pains
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blistering, peeling, or loosening of skin
bloating
blood in urine or stools
bloody urine
blue lips and fingernails
blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chest pain
chills
clay-colored stools
cloudy urine
cold sweats
confusion
constipation
cough or hoarseness
coughing that sometimes produces a pink frothy sputum
coughing up blood
cracks in the skin
darkened urine
decrease in urine output or decrease in urine-concentrating ability
decreased frequency or amount of urine
diarrhea
difficult, fast, or noisy breathing, sometimes with wheezing
difficulty swallowing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly
dry mouth
fast or irregular heartbeat
fever
flushed, dry skin
fruit-like breath odor
general body swelling
general feeling of discomfort or illness
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
greatly decreased frequency of urination or amount of urine
headache
hives
increased blood pressure
increased hunger
increased sweating
increased thirst
increased urination
indigestion
itching
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
loss of appetite
loss of heat from the body
lower back or side pain
muscle cramps or pain
nausea or vomiting
nosebleeds
numbness, tingling, pain, or weakness in hands or feet
pain in joints or muscles
painful or difficult urination
pains in stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rash
red, irritated eyes
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, swollen skin
redness, soreness, or itching skin
scaly skin
seizures
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on lips or in mouth
sores, welting, or blisters
sugar in the urine
swelling of face, fingers, legs, ankles, feet, or lower legs
swollen or painful glands
tenderness of salivary glands
thickening of bronchial secretions
tightness in chest
trembling
troubled breathing
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight loss
vomiting of blood
weakness and heaviness of legs
weight gain
wheezing
yellow eyes or skin
Cramping
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
hair loss, thinning of hair
inability to have or keep an erection
increased sensitivity of skin to sunlight
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
muscle spasm
pinpoint red or purple spots on skin
redness or other discoloration of skin
restlessness
sensation of spinning
severe sunburn
weakness