If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking cabergoline, get emergency help immediately:
Very common (10% or more): Nausea (up to 29%)Common (1% to 10%): Constipation, dyspepsia, gastritis, vomiting, abdominal pain, dyspepsia, dry mouth, diarrhea, flatulence, throat irritation, toothache
Very common (10% or more): Headache (up to 26%), dizziness (up to 17%)Common (1% to 10%): Dizziness/vertigo, dyskinesia, paresthesia, somnolenceUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): HyperkinesiaFrequency not reported: Sudden sleep onset, syncope, tremor
Common (1% to 10%): AstheniaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Fatigue, malaise
Common (1% to 10%): Hallucinations sleep disturbance, increased libido, confusion, depression, anxiety, insomnia, nervousnessUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Delusions, psychotic disorderFrequency not reported: Aggression, hypersexuality, pathological gambling
Very common (10% or more): Peripheral edemaCommon (1% to 10%): Angina (with concomitant levodopa use), postural hypotension, hot flashes, cardiac valvulopathy, hypotension, dependent edema, palpitationUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): ErythromelalgiaRare (less than 0.
1%): Syncope, heart failure Frequency not reported: Constrictive pericarditis, digital vasospasmPostmarketing reports: Cardiac valvulopathy, pericarditis, pericardial effusion
Reports of cardiac valvulopathy have generally been received in patients on higher doses (greater than 2 mg/day); however, there have been cases in patients receiving lower doses for the treatment of hyperprolactinemic disorders.
In a multi-country, retrospective cohort study, record review looking for an association between the new use of dopamine agonists (including this drug; n=27,812) and cardiac valvular regurgitation (CVR), other fibrosis, and other cardiopulmonary events found an increased risk of CVR among patients with Parkinson's disease when compared to non-ergot derived dopamine agonists and levodopa.
Analysis in patients with hyperprolactinemia treated with this drug (n=8386) found that compared to non-users, exposed persons did not have an elevated risk of CVR.
These findings are consistent with other published studies.
Frequency not reported: Leg cramps
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Rash, acne, pruritus Frequency not reported: Alopecia
Common (1% to 10%): DyspneaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Pleural effusion, pulmonary fibrosis, rhinitisVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Fibrosis (including pleural fibrosis)Frequency not reported: Respiratory disorder, respiratory failure, pleuritic, chest pain
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Periorbital edema, abnormal vision
Common (1% to 10%): Breast painUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Dysmenorrhea
Adverse effects are generally dose related.
At lower doses, the more commonly reported adverse reactions included nausea, headache, dizziness/vertigo, abdominal pain/dyspepsia/gastritis, asthenia/fatigue; at higher doses, additional events of valvulopathy, dyspnea, dyskinesia, orthostatic hypotension, hallucination, and constipation have been commonly reported.
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Hepatic function abnormalitiesPostmarketing reports: Liver function test abnormal
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Hypersensitivity reaction
Bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chills
cold sweats
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from lying or sitting position
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
general feeling of discomfort or illness
rapid weight gain
swelling around the eyes
tingling of the hands or feet
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight gain or loss
Chest pain or tightness
continuing loss of appetite
continuing or severe abdominal or stomach pain
continuing or severe nausea and vomiting
cough
decreased ability to exercise
fever
increased frequency of urination
loss of appetite
lower abdominal or stomach pain
lower back pain
nausea
shortness of breath
trouble with breathing
vomiting
weakness
Fainting
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
stuffy nose
Difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
dizziness
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
full feeling
headache
lack or loss of strength
passing gas
Abdominal or stomach pain
acid or sour stomach
anxiety
belching
blemishes on the skin
breast pain
burning, itching, or stinging of the skin
changes in vision
cramps
depression
diarrhea
difficulty with moving
dry mouth or toothache
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
feeling of warmth
gas
heartburn
heavy bleeding
indigestion
itching skin
joint pain
muscle aches and pains
muscle stiffness
pimples
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
runny nose
sensation of spinning
shivering
sleeplessness
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sneezing
sore throat
stomach discomfort or upset
sudden sweating
trouble with sleeping
unable to sleep
weight loss
Bloody nose
difficulty in concentrating
increased in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
increased interest in sexual intercourse
Attack, assault, or force
feeling that others are watching you or controlling your behavior
feeling that others can hear your thoughts
hair loss or thinning of the hair
pathological gambling
severe mood or mental changes
unusual behavior