Isradipine (the active ingredient contained in Dynacirc) is generally well-tolerated.
Most side effects occurred as commonly as with placebo in placebo-controlled trials, except for flushing, headache, and palpitations.
Cardiovascular side effects are among the most common, and are related to the vasodilatory properties of isradipine (the active ingredient contained in Dynacirc)   Peripheral edema and flushing are reported in  to  of patients, being more common at higher doses.
Dizziness occurs in  to  of patients.
Palpitations or a greater awareness of heart beats is reported in  to  of patients.
Flushing and palpitations are more likely with dosages greater than  mg daily; women have reported flushing more than men.
Edema was reported in up to  of patients in one study (mean dose was  mg TID).
In large studies, the incidence of edema is less than , and appeared to be more likely in patients greater than  years of age.
Isradipine does not appear to adversely affect plasma lipids.
Headache was reported in up to  of patients in one study, although the mean dose was  mg three times daily to treat angina pectoris.
Headache is more likely with dosages greater than  mg daily.
Visual disturbances are reported in less than  of patients.
Sleep disturbances are reported in  of patients.
Nervous system side effects are probably related to the vasodilatory effects of isradipine.
Headache is reported in  to  of patients and fatigue is reported in  of patients.
Anorexia, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea are reported in less than  of patients.
Gastrointestinal side effects are unusual, and include constipation in less than  of patients.
Respiratory system complaints include dyspnea and cough in  of patients.
Musculoskeletal pain is reported in  of patients.
Dermatologic complaints of "disturbed skin sensation" are reported in less than  of patients.
Hypersensitivity reactions to isradipine (the active ingredient contained in Dynacirc) are rare.
Pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema have been reported.
Bloating or swelling of face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
tingling of hands or feet
unusual weight gain or loss
Chest pain
difficult or labored breathing
dizziness
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
feeling of warmth
full or bloated feeling
nausea
pressure in the stomach
redness of the face, neck, arms and occasionally, upper chest
shortness of breath
swelling of abdominal or stomach area
tightness in chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
wheezing
Blurred vision
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly
flushing
sweating
Headache
Diarrhea
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
rash
stomach soreness or discomfort