More frequent side effects include: attempted suicide, suicidal ideation, depressed mood, depression, dysphoria, major depressive disorder, and mood changes.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Most side effects occurred in the first  weeks of therapy.
The most common side effects (at least moderate severity) were depression, headache, insomnia, increased transaminases, and rash.
This drug was discontinued due to side effects in  of patients.
Increased ALT (grade : ; grade : ; grade : ; grade : ), AST (grade : ; grade : ; grade : ; grade : ), and total bilirubin (grade : ; grade : ; grade : ) have been reported.
The incidence of hepatic enzyme elevation was greater in patients coinfected with hepatitis B and/or C virus compared with uninfected patients.
Very common ( or more): Increased ALT (up to ), increased AST (up to ), increased transaminasesCommon ( to ): Increased total bilirubinFrequency not reported: Hepatotoxicity, cholecystitis, cholelithiasis, drug-induced acute allergic hepatitis
Common ( to ): RashFrequency not reported: LipodystrophyPostmarketing reports: Severe skin and hypersensitivity reactions (including drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms [DRESS])
During phase  trials,  of patients using this drug reported at least grade  therapy-related rashes; most rashes were grade  or  and developed in the first  to  weeks of therapy.
Very common ( or more): Increased fasted total cholesterol (up to ), increased fasted low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (up to )Common ( to ): Increased fasted triglycerides, decreased appetiteFrequency not reported: Redistribution/accumulation of body fat (including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement, peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, "cushingoid appearance")
Increased fasted total cholesterol (grade : ; grade : ; grade : less than ), fasted LDL cholesterol (grade : ; grade : ; grade : ), and fasted triglycerides (grade : ; grade : ) have been reported.
Very common ( or more): InsomniaCommon ( to ): Depression, depressed mood, depressive disorders (reported as depressed mood, depression, dysphoria, major depression, altered mood, negative thoughts, suicide attempt, suicidal ideation), abnormal dreams, sleep disordersFrequency not reported: Anxiety
Psychiatric disorders were the most common side effects leading to treatment discontinuation.
In the phase  clinical trials, ten patients , discontinued this drug due to psychiatric disorders.
During phase  trials through  weeks, depressive disorders (regardless of causality, severity) were reported in  of patients.
Very common ( or more): Headache, dizzinessCommon ( to ): Somnolence
Very common ( or more): Nausea, increased pancreatic amylaseCommon ( to ): Abdominal pain, vomiting, abdominal discomfort, increased lipase, dry mouthFrequency not reported: Diarrhea
Postmarketing reports: Severe skin and hypersensitivity reactions (including DRESS)
Common ( to ): Increased creatinineFrequency not reported: Membranous glomerulonephritis, mesangioproliferative glomerulonephritis, nephrolithiasisPostmarketing reports: Nephrotic syndrome
Grade , , and  increases in creatinine have been reported in , , and less than  of patients, respectively.
During phase  trials, an increase in serum creatinine was seen over  weeks of therapy.
Most of this increase occurred within the first  weeks of therapy, with a mean change of  mg/dL (range: - to  mg/dL) observed after  weeks of therapy.
In subjects with mild or moderate baseline renal dysfunction, the serum creatinine increase observed was similar to that seen in subjects with normal renal function.
These changes were not considered clinically relevant and no subject discontinued therapy due to increases in serum creatinine.
Common ( to ): Fatigue
Common ( to ): Decreased white blood cell count, decreased hemoglobin, decreased platelet count
Uncommon ( to ): Immune reconstitution/reactivation syndromeFrequency not reported: Autoimmune disorders in the setting of immune reconstitution (, Graves' disease, polymyositis, Guillain-Barre syndrome)
In the pooled phase  trials, at week , there was an overall mean change from baseline in basal cortisol of - nmol/L (- mcg/dL) in the rilpivirine (the active ingredient contained in Edurant) group, and of - nmol/L (- mcg/dL) in the efavirenz group.
At week , the mean change from baseline in ACTH-stimulated cortisol levels was lower in the rilpivirine group (+ nmol/L) than in the efavirenz group (+ nmol/L).
Mean values for both basal and ACTH-stimulated cortisol values at week  were within the normal range.
In the rilpivirine group,  of  patients with normal  mcg ACTH stimulation test at baseline developed abnormal  mcg ACTH stimulation test (peak cortisol level less than  mcg/dL) during the trial versus  of  patients in the efavirenz group.
Abnormal  mcg ACTH stimulation test at week  was seen in  of the  rilpivirine patients and  of the  efavirenz patients.
Clinical significance of abnormal  mcg ACTH stimulation tests (or the higher rate in the rilpivirine group) has not been established.
Overall, there were no serious side effects, deaths, or treatment discontinuations that could clearly be attributed to adrenal insufficiency.
Frequency not reported: Decreased basal cortisol, decreased adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-stimulated cortisol levels, adrenal insufficiency, abnormal  mcg ACTH stimulation test
Abdominal or stomach fullness
changes in behavior
cloudy or bloody urine
discouragement
feeling sad or empty
gaseous abdominal or stomach pain
indigestion
irritability
lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
recurrent fever
severe nausea or vomiting
swelling of the face, feet, or lower legs
thoughts of killing oneself
tiredness
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
yellow eyes or skin
Abdominal or stomach discomfort
abnormal dreams
decreased appetite
diarrhea
dizziness
fear or nervousness
headache
nausea
rash
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Decreased amount of fat from your legs, arms, or face
increased amount of fat in the upper back and neck, or around the chest and stomach area