Commonly reported side effects of efavirenz include: diarrhea, nausea, and skin rash.
Other side effects include: dizziness, lack of concentration, fatigue, headache, vomiting, and anorexia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
The most significant side effects included nervous system symptoms, psychiatric symptoms, and rash.
The most common side effects (at least moderate severity) were impaired concentration, abnormal dreams, rash, dizziness, nausea, headache, fatigue, insomnia, and vomiting in patients using this drug in combination with lamivudine-zidovudine or indinavir.
Administration of this drug with food may increase drug exposure and may increase the rate of side effects (especially nervous system symptoms).
Increased nonfasting serum cholesterol and HDL have been reported; clinical significance unknown.
Increased nonfasting triglycerides (at least 751 mg/dL) and glucose (greater than 250 mg/dL) have been reported in up to 11% and up to 5% of patients, respectively.
Very common (10% or more): Increased nonfasting serum cholesterol (up to 54%), increased HDL (up to 35%), increased nonfasting triglycerides (up to 11%)Common (1% to 10%): Increased glucose, anorexia, hypertriglyceridemia, decreased weight (included cachexia/wasting), weight gain, weight lossUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): HypercholesterolemiaFrequency not reported: Redistribution/accumulation of body fat (including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement, peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, "cushingoid appearance"), insulin resistance, hyperglycemia, hyperlactatemia, alcohol intolerance, increased appetite
Nervous system symptoms generally began the first or second day of therapy and often resolved after 2 to 4 weeks.
Nervous system symptoms of any grade and regardless of causality (52.
7%) included dizziness, insomnia, impaired concentration, somnolence, abnormal dreams, hallucinations, amnesia, agitation, euphoria, depersonalization, confusion, abnormal thinking, and stupor during clinical trials with this drug in combination with other antiretroviral agents.
These symptoms were mild in 33.
3%, moderate in 17.
4%, and severe in 2% of patients.
Therapy was discontinued in 2.
1% of patients due to these side effects.
Side effects of moderate or severe intensity included dizziness (up to 9%), headache (up to 8%), impaired concentration (up to 5%), and somnolence (up to 2%).
Vacuolar axonopathy and hypersomnolence leading to coma and death was reported in a patient with elevated drug levels.
Very common (10% or more): Dizziness (included lightheadedness/fainting; up to 28.
1%)Common (1% to 10%): Impaired concentration, headache, somnolence, disturbance in attention, paresthesia (included numbness/tingling)Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Agitation, amnesia, ataxia, abnormal coordination, convulsions, abnormal thinking, vertigo, taste perversionFrequency not reported: Depersonalization, confusion, stupor, impaired attention span, impaired coordination, migraine headaches, neuralgia, peripheral neuropathy, speech disorder, parosmia, vacuolar axonopathy and hypersomnolence leading to coma and deathPostmarketing reports: Cerebellar coordination and balance disturbances, hypoesthesia, neuropathy, tremor, tinnitus
Rashes were usually mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions.
The median time to onset of rash in adults was 11 days.
In most patients, the rash resolved within 1 month despite continued use of the drug.
Treatment was discontinued in 1.
7% of patients due to rash.
There was limited experience using this drug in patients who previously discontinued other nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors due to rash.
In 19 such patients formerly on nevirapine, about half developed a mild to moderate rash; 2 of those patients discontinued therapy because of the rash.
Very common (10% or more): Skin rash of any grade (26.
3%), rash (included erythema multiforme, rash, erythematous rash, follicular rash, maculopapular rash, petechial rash, pustular rash, urticaria, macules, papules, erythema, redness, inflammation, allergic rash, welts, hives, itchy, pruritus; up to 16%), grade 2 rash (diffuse maculopapular rash, dry desquamation; 14.
7%), grade 1 rash (erythema, pruritus; 10.
7%)Common (1% to 10%): Pruritus, increased sweating, urticaria (included allergic rash/welts/hives), erythema/redness/inflammation, blisters/ulcerations/lesions, dry skinUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Grade 3 rash (vesiculation, moist desquamation, ulceration), grade 4 rash (erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, necrosis requiring surgery, exfoliative dermatitis)Frequency not reported: Nail disorders, skin discoloration, leukocytoclastic vasculitisPostmarketing reports: Erythema multiforme, photoallergic dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome
Psychiatric symptoms generally began the first or second day of therapy and often resolved after 2 to 4 weeks.
Patients with history of psychiatric disorders were at greater risk of serious psychiatric side effects.
Psychiatric side effects classified as serious during controlled trials included severe depression, suicidal ideation, nonfatal suicide attempts, aggressive behavior, paranoid reactions, and manic reactions.
One percent of patients discontinued or interrupted therapy due to at least 1 of these side effects.
Side effects of moderate or severe intensity included insomnia (up to 7%), depression (up to 5%), anxiety (up to 4%), abnormal dreams (up to 3%), and nervousness (up to 2%).
Very common (10% or more): Depression (up to 19%), insomnia (included dreams/sleeping problems; up to 16.
3%), anxiety (up to 13%)Common (1% to 10%): Nervousness (included agitation/hyperactive), abnormal dreams, severe depression, hallucinationsUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Affect lability, confusional state, euphoric mood, suicidal ideation, nonfatal suicide attempts, aggressive behavior, paranoid reactions, manic reactions, drug abuseFrequency not reported: Obsessive disorder, irritability, mood changes, vivid dreams, nightmares, delirium, increased libido, decreased libido, aggravated depression, apathyPostmarketing reports: Aggressive reactions, agitation, delusions, emotional lability, mania, neurosis, paranoia, psychosis, completed suicide, psychosis-like behavior
Elevated amylase (greater than 2 times the upper limit of normal [ULN]) has been reported in up to 6% of patients.
A 42-year-old HIV-positive woman's saquinavir in her highly active antiretroviral therapy was replaced with this drug to increase compliance.
Two weeks after initiation, the patient reported severe and constant burning in her tongue, gums, and oral mucosa and was diagnosed with burning mouth syndrome (BMS).
Efavirenz was discontinued and the BMS resolved within a week.
Very common (10% or more): Diarrhea (up to 14%)Common (1% to 10%): Nausea (included nausea/vomiting), vomiting, elevated amylase, dyspepsia, abdominal pain (included groin/pelvic pain), constipationUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Pancreatitis, flatulenceFrequency not reported: Asymptomatic increases in serum amylase levels, gastritis, gastroenteritis, gastroesophageal reflux, dry mouth, burning mouth syndromePostmarketing reports: Malabsorption
False-positive urine cannabinoid test results have been observed with some screening assays in uninfected and HIV-infected subjects using this drug.
Very common (10% or more): Pain (included flank and back pain; up to 13%)Common (1% to 10%): Fatigue (included asthenia, malaise), edema (included enlarged/swollen, leg edema, peripheral edema), feverUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): AstheniaFrequency not reported: False-positive urine cannabinoid test results, vitamin D deficiency, hot flushes, malaise, influenza-like symptoms, peripheral edema, syncopePostmarketing reports: Flushing, contraceptive failure (with an implantable hormonal contraceptive)
Common (1% to 10%): Increased ALT, increased AST, increased GGTFrequency not reported: Acute hepatitisPostmarketing reports: Hepatic failure (a few reports were characterized by a fulminant course, with some cases progressing to transplantation or death), hepatic enzyme increase, hepatitis
Increased ALT, AST, and GGT to greater than 5 times ULN have each been reported in up to 8% of patients.
Isolated elevations of GGT may have reflected enzyme induction not associated with liver toxicity.
During clinical trials, elevations in ALT and AST to greater than 5 times ULN occurred in 20% and 13%, respectively, of patients seropositive for hepatitis B and/or C.
Therapy was discontinued in 3% of coinfected patients due to liver or biliary system disorders.
Some of the postmarketing reports of hepatic failure occurred in patients with no preexisting liver disease or other identifiable risk factors.
Neutropenia (less than 750/mm3) was reported in up to 10% of patients.
Common (1% to 10%): NeutropeniaRare (less than 0.
1%): Hemolytic anemia
Common (1% to 10%): Cardiovascular dysfunctionFrequency not reported: QT interval prolongation, torsades de pointes, tachycardia, thrombophlebitisPostmarketing reports: Palpitations
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): HypersensitivityFrequency not reported: Skin rash, eosinophilia, and systemic involvement (lymphadenopathy, interstitial nephritis, pneumonia, pulmonary infiltration, hepatitis, fever, rigor, myalgia, arthralgias)Postmarketing reports: Allergic reactions
Analysis of a 3 mm stone, eliminated by a 47-year-old HIV-1-infected male patient, showed a stone consisting of 60% efavirenz metabolites.
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): HematuriaRare (less than 0.
1%): UrolithiasisFrequency not reported: ImpotencePostmarketing reports: Gynecomastia
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): DyspneaFrequency not reported: Asthma, sinusitis, upper respiratory tract infection
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Renal calculusRare (less than 0.
1%): Renal colicFrequency not reported: Podocyte damage
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Blurred visionFrequency not reported: DiplopiaPostmarketing reports: Abnormal vision
Frequency not reported: Immune reconstitution/reactivation syndrome, autoimmune disorders in the setting of immune reconstitution (e.
g.
, Graves' disease, polymyositis, Guillain-Barre syndrome)
Frequency not reported: Osteomalacia (due to drug-induced vitamin D deficiency), osteonecrosisPostmarketing reports: Arthralgia, myalgia, myopathy
Depression
skin rash or itching
Blood in the urine
difficult or painful urination
pain in the lower back or side
Abdominal or stomach pain
blistering
changes in vision
clumsiness or unsteadiness
confusion
convulsions (seizures)
cough
dark urine
delusions
double vision
fainting
fast or pounding heartbeat
fever or chills
headache (severe and throbbing)
hives
inappropriate behavior
loss of appetite
mood or mental changes (severe)
muscle cramps or pain
nausea or vomiting
nerve pain
open sores
pain, tenderness, bluish color, or swelling of the leg or foot
rapid weight gain
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
sense of constant movement of self or surroundings
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
speech disorder
swelling or tenderness in the upper abdominal or stomach area
swelling of the hands, arms, feet, or legs
thoughts of suicide or attempts at suicide
tightness in the chest
tingling, burning, numbness, or pain in the hands, arms, feet, or legs
tingling, burning, or prickling sensations
tremor
troubled breathing
unusual tiredness
weight loss
yellow eyes or skin
Actions that are out of control
attack, assault, or force
continuing vomiting
delusions of persecution, mistrust, suspiciousness, or combativeness
difficult or labored breathing
early appearance of redness or swelling of the skin
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
irregular heartbeat recurrent
irritability
late appearance of rash with or without weeping blisters that become crusted, especially in sun-exposed areas of the skin, may extend to unexposed areas
light-colored stools
nervousness
talking, feeling, and acting with excitement
Diarrhea
dizziness
drowsiness
headache
increased sweating
poor concentration
trouble sleeping
Abnormally decreased sensitivity, particularly to touch
agitation or anxiety
belching
change in sense of taste or smell
dry mouth
excessive gas
false sense of well-being
flaking and falling off of the skin
flushing
general feeling of discomfort
heartburn
indigestion
joint pain
lack of feeling or emotion
loss of hair
loss of memory
loss of sense of reality
mood changes
pain
painful, red, hot, or irritated hair follicles
ringing in the ears
stomach discomfort
unusual dreams
weakness
Difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
discoloration of the fingernails or toenails
dizziness or lightheadedness
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
increased amount of fat in the upper back and neck, or around the chest and stomach area
lose fat from the legs, arms, and face
sensation of spinning
swelling of the breasts or breast soreness in both females and males