Common side effects of Elaprase include: abscess, chest wall pain, dyspepsia, infusion related reaction, pruritic rash, pruritus, urticaria, and visual disturbance.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
The most frequently reported adverse effects in all clinical trials were hypersensitivity reactions and included rash, urticaria, pruritus, flushing, pyrexia, and headache.
The most frequently reported adverse effects following treatment were hypoxia, pyrexia, rash, vomiting, diarrhea, cough, musculoskeletal pain, headache, pruritus, and urticaria.
In clinical trials, the most common adverse effects were hypersensitivity reactions and included rash, urticaria, pruritus, flushing, pyrexia, and headache.
Most reactions were resolved with slowing the infusion rate or temporarily stopping the infusion, with or without additional treatments including antihistamines and/or corticosteroids prior to or during infusions.
Very common ( or more): Hypersensitivity reactionFrequency not reported: Anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactionPostmarketing reports: Late-emergent anaphylactoid reaction
In clinical trials,  out of  patients  years and older tested positive for antidrug antibodies at least  time; of the  patients,  tested positive for antidrug antibodies  or more times.
The incidence of hypersensitivity reactions was higher in positive antidrug antibody patients than those who tested negative.
Out of  antidrug antibody positive patients,  also tested positive for neutralizing antibodies.
There was no clear relationship between presence of either type of antibody and therapeutic response.
Very common ( or more): Antidrug antibody development , neutralizing antibody development 
Very common ( or more): Headache (up to )Common ( to ): Dizziness, tremor
Very common ( or more): Rash (up to ), pruritus (up to ), urticaria (up to )Common ( to ): Erythema
Very common ( or more): Infusion-related reaction , pyrexia (up to ), chest pain (up to ), infusion site swelling Common ( to ): Face edema, peripheral edema
The most serious infusion-related reactions included anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions.
The most common infusion-related reactions included cutaneous reactions (rash, pruritus, urticaria), pyrexia, headache, hypertension, flushing, wheezing, hypoxia, dyspnea, abdominal pain, nausea, dyspepsia, chest pain, and infusion site swelling.
Treatment/amelioration of infusion-related reactions included slowing the infusion rate, interrupting the infusion, or drug therapy (, antihistamines, antipyretics, low-dose corticosteroids [prednisone, methylprednisolone], beta-agonist nebulization).
Very common ( or more): Musculoskeletal pain Common ( to ): Arthralgia
Very common ( or more): Abdominal pain (up to ), nausea (up to ), dyspepsia , vomiting, diarrheaCommon ( to ): Swollen tongue
Very common ( or more): Hypertension (up to ), flushing Common ( to ): Cyanosis, arrhythmia, tachycardia, hypotensionPostmarketing reports: Cardiac failure, cardiorespiratory arrest
Very common ( or more): Wheezing , dyspnea (up to )Common ( to ): Cough, bronchospasm, tachypnea, hypoxiaFrequency not reported: Pulmonary embolismPostmarketing reports: Respiratory failure, respiratory distress, pneumonia
Bone or muscle pain
chest pain
chills
cough
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
feeling of warmth
fever
headache
hives or welts
itching
rash
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
redness of the skin
sneezing
sore throat
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
Blurred vision
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
sweating
Difficulty with swallowing
dilated neck veins
extreme fatigue
heart stops
irregular breathing
no breathing
no pulse or blood pressure
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
unconscious
weight gain
Change in hearing
diarrhea
ear drainage
earache or pain in the ear
Nausea
vomiting