Cardiovascular side effects including deep vein thrombosis, hypertension, hypotension, myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism, and tachycardia have been reported with the use of aprepitant (the active ingredient contained in Emend) as a part of a regimen that also included ondansetron and dexamethasone which was given along with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy.
Dermatologic side effects including alopecia (24%) and rash have been reported with the use of aprepitant (the active ingredient contained in Emend) as a part of a regimen that also included ondansetron and dexamethasone which was given along with moderately or highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy.
Postmarketing side effects reported include pruritus, rash, urticaria, and rarely Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis.
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea (7.
1% to 12.
7%), constipation (10.
3% to 12.
3%), diarrhea (5.
5% to 10.
3%), dyspepsia (8.
4%), vomiting (7.
5%), stomatitis (5.
3%), heartburn (5.
3%), gastritis (4.
2%), and epigastric discomfort (4.
0%) have been reported with the use of aprepitant (the active ingredient contained in Emend) as a part of a regimen with ondansetron and dexamethasone which was given along with moderately or highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy.
Acid reflux, deglutination, disorder, dysgeusia, dysphagia, flatulence, obstipation, increased salivation, and taste disturbance have also been reported.
General side effects including asthenia/fatigue (17.
8%), dizziness (3.
4% to 6.
6%), dehydration (5.
9%), abdominal pain (4.
6%), fever (2.
9%), mucous membrane disorder (2.
6%) have been reported with the use of aprepitant (the active ingredient contained in Emend) as a part of a regimen that also included ondansetron and dexamethasone which was given along with moderately or highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy.
Diaphoresis, edema, flushing, malaise, pelvic pain, septic shock, and upper respiratory infection have also been reported.
The most common side effects reported at an incidence of 1% or greater were hiccups, asthenia/fatigue, increased ALT, increased AST, constipation, dyspepsia, diarrhea, headache, and anorexia.
Genitourinary side effects including dysuria and renal insufficiency have been reported with the use of aprepitant (the active ingredient contained in Emend) as a part of a regimen that also included ondansetron and dexamethasone which was given along with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy.
Hematologic side effects including neutropenia have been reported with the use of aprepitant (the active ingredient contained in Emend) as a part of a regimen that also included ondansetron and dexamethasone which was given along with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy.
Anemia, febrile neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia have also been reported.
Hypersensitivity side effects including anaphylactic reactions have been reported.
Metabolic side effects including diabetes mellitus have been reported with the use of aprepitant (the active ingredient contained in Emend) as a part of a regimen that also included ondansetron and dexamethasone which was given along with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy.
Decreased appetite, hypokalemia, and weight loss have also been reported.
Musculoskeletal side effects including muscular weakness, musculoskeletal pain, and myalgia have been reported with the use of aprepitant (the active ingredient contained in Emend) as a part of a regimen that also included ondansetron and dexamethasone which was given along with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy.
Nervous system side effects including headache (8.
5% to 16.
4%) and insomnia (2.
9%) have been reported with the use of aprepitant (the active ingredient contained in Emend) as a part of a regimen that also included ondansetron and dexamethasone which was given along with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy.
Peripheral neuropathy and sensory neuropathy have also been reported.
Other side effects including anorexia (4.
3% to 10.
1%) and tinnitus (3.
7%) have been reported with the use of aprepitant (the active ingredient contained in Emend) as a part of a regimen that also included ondansetron and dexamethasone which was given along with moderately or highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy.
Thyroid follicular cell adenomas and carcinomas in male rats and increased incidences of hepatocellular adenoma and thyroid follicular adenoma in female rats have been reported.
The drug has also been reported to cause skin fibrosarcomas in male mice.
Oncologic side effects including malignant neoplasm and non-small cell lung carcinoma have been reported with the use of aprepitant as a part of a regimen that also included ondansetron and dexamethasone which was given along with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy.
Psychiatric side effects including anxiety disorder, confusion, and depression have been reported with the use of aprepitant (the active ingredient contained in Emend) as a part of a regimen that also included ondansetron and dexamethasone which was given along with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy.
Respiratory side effects including hiccups (10.
8%) have been reported with the use of aprepitant (the active ingredient contained in Emend) as a part of a regimen that also included ondansetron and dexamethasone which was given along with moderately or highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy.
Cough, dyspnea, pneumonitis, respiratory insufficiency, lower respiratory infection, nasal secretion, pharyngitis, pharyngolaryngeal pain, and vocal disturbance have also been reported.
Black or tarry stools
chills
cough
fever
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination 
pale skin
shortness of breath
sore throat
ulcers, sores, or white spots in the mouth
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
confusion about identity, place, and time
diarrhea
itching or skin rash
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
redness of the skin
red, irritated eyes
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
slow or irregular heartbeat
Acid or sour stomach
belching
confusion
decreased urination
dizziness
dry mouth
fainting
heartburn
hiccups
increase in heart rate
indigestion
lack or loss of strength
lightheadedness
loss of appetite
nausea
rapid breathing
stomach discomfort upset or pain
sunken eyes
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
thirst
weight loss
wrinkled skin
Burning feeling in the chest or stomach
hot flashes
indigestion
pain or discomfort in the chest, upper stomach, or throat
tenderness in the stomach area