More frequently reported side effects include: increased serum alanine aminotransferase, increased serum amylase, increased serum aspartate aminotransferase, and neutropenia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
The most common side effects reported during any of  large controlled clinical trials were headache, diarrhea, nausea, fatigue, dizziness, depression, insomnia, abnormal dreams, rash, abdominal pain, asthenia, increased cough, and rhinitis.
During  clinical trials, the most common side effects associated with emtricitabine in combination with other antiretrovirals were headache, diarrhea, nausea, and rash.
Most were of mild to moderate severity.
Treatment was discontinued due to these adverse effects in approximately  of patients.
Side effects have been reported for emtricitabine when taken in combination with other antiretroviral agents.
Dermatological side effects have included rash event (any Grade: up to ; Grades  to : ).
"Rash event" included rash, pruritus, maculopapular rash, urticaria, vesiculobullous rash, pustular rash, exfoliative rash, generalized rash, macular rash, pruritic rash, vesicular rash, and allergic reaction.
Skin discoloration (palmar-plantar hyperpigmentation) has been reported.
Nervous system side effects have included dizziness (any Grade: up to ; Grades  to : ), headache (any Grade: up to ; Grades  to : ), insomnia (any Grade: up to ; Grades  to : ), paresthesia (any Grade: up to ), neuropathy/peripheral neuritis (any Grade: ), and somnolence.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea (any Grade: ; Grades  to : ), nausea (any Grade: up to ; Grades  to : ), vomiting (any Grade: ; Grades  to : ), and dyspepsia (any Grade: up to ).
Metabolic side effects have included blood glucose changes (less than  or greater than  mg/dL; up to ), hyperglycemia (greater than  mg/dL; ), and increased fasting cholesterol (greater than  mg/dL; ), triglycerides (greater than  mg/dL; up to ), serum amylase (greater than  times ULN: up to ; greater than  units/L: ), fasting triglycerides (greater than  mg/dL; ), pancreatic amylase (greater than  times ULN; up to ), serum lipase (greater than  times ULN; up to ), and alkaline phosphatase (greater than  units/L; ).
Redistribution/accumulation of body fat including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement, peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and "cushingoid appearance" have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy.
Respiratory side effects have included rhinitis (any Grade: up to ), increased cough (any Grade: ), sinusitis (Grades  to : ), upper respiratory tract infections (Grades  to : ), and nasopharyngitis (Grades  to : ).
Other side effects have included asthenia (any Grade: up to ), abdominal pain (any Grade: up to ), and fatigue (Grades  to : ).
Increased creatine kinase (greater than  units/L in males and  units/L in females) has been reported in  of patients.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included elevated creatine kinase (greater than  times ULN; up to ), myalgia (any Grade: up to ), and arthralgia (any Grade: up to ).
Psychiatric side effects have included abnormal dreams (any Grade: up to ), depressive disorders (any Grade: up to ), and depression (Grades  to : ).
Hepatic side effects have included elevated AST (greater than  times ULN; up to ), ALT (greater than  times ULN; up to ), and bilirubin (greater than  times ULN; up to ).
Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of emtricitabine and other nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with other antiretroviral agents.
Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis B have been reported in patients coinfected with HIV- and hepatitis B after discontinuation of emtricitabine and were associated with liver failure and liver decompensation in some patients.
Increased AST (greater than  units/L in males and  units/L in females) has been reported in  of patients.
Increased ALT (greater than  units/L in males and  units/L in females) has been reported in  of patients.
Immunologic side effects have included immune reconstitution syndrome.
Autoimmune disorders (, Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barre syndrome) have been reported in the setting of immune reconstitution.
Hematologic side effects have included decreased neutrophils (less than /mm; up to ).
Genitourinary side effects have included hematuria (greater than  RBC/HPF; ) and glycosuria ( plus; less than ).
Burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles, or tingling feelings
chest pain or tightness
cough or hoarseness
fever or chills
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Sensation of pins and needles
stabbing pain
Abdominal or stomach pain
abnormal dreams
darkening or redness of the skin
depression
dizziness
earache
headache
heartburn or indigestion
itching skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rash, hives, or welts on the skin
spots on your skin resembling a blister or pimple
vomiting
Joint pain or swelling
muscle stiffness
trouble sleeping
unsteadiness or awkwardness
weakness in the arms, hands, legs, or feet