Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea ( to ), abdominal pain ( to ), diarrhea ( to ), flatulence ( to ), and dyspepsia ( to ).
General side effects have included headache ( to ), asthenia ( to ), back pain ( to ), flu syndrome ( to ), pain ( to ), and accidental injury ( to ).
Postmarketing side effects include increased weight.
Genitourinary side effects have included breast pain ( to ), dysmenorrhea ( to ), vaginitis ( to ), menstrual disorder ( to ), suspicious Papanicolaou smear ( to ), and leukorrhea .
Endometrial thickening ( to ) and vaginal hemorrhage ( to ) have also been reported.
Postmarketing side effects include endometrial hyperplasia, endocervical polyp, uterine leiomyomata, fallopian tube cyst, uterine spasms, and breast cancer.
Local side effects have included reactions at the application site ( to ).
Psychiatric side effects have included nervousness ( to ) and depression ( to ).
Respiratory side effects have included rhinitis ( to ), respiratory disorder ( to ), pharyngitis ( to ), and sinusitis ( to ).
Cardiovascular side effects include postmarketing reports of hypertension and varicose veins.
Dermatologic side effects include postmarketing reports of skin discoloration.
Hepatic side effects include postmarketing reports of jaundice cholestatic, cholelithiasis, gall bladder disorder, and increased transaminases.
Hypersensitivity side effects include postmarketing reports of angioedema and hypersensitivity.
Nervous system side effects include postmarketing reports of affect lability, libido disorder, migraine, vertigo, and paraesthesia.
transdermal patch extended release
Body aches or pain
chills or fever
cold or flu-like symptoms
difficulty breathing
headache
itching of the vagina or genital area
nonmenstrual vaginal bleeding
pain during sexual intercourse
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
unusual tiredness or weakness
Abdominal or stomach pain
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
change in vaginal discharge
chest pain, discomfort, or tightness in chest
clay-colored stools
clear or bloody discharge from the nipple
confusion
dark urine
difficulty speaking
difficulty swallowing
dizziness or lightheadedness
double vision
fainting
fast heartbeat
inability to move the arms, legs, or facial muscles
inability to speak
joint or muscle pain
loss of appetite
lump in the breast or under the arm
nausea and vomiting
noisy breathing
pain in the ankles or knees
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
pain or feeling of pressure in the pelvis
pain, redness, or swelling in the arm or leg
painful, red lumps under the skin, mostly on the legs
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
problems with memory or speech
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red, irritated eyes
redness or swelling of the breast
skin rash, hives, or itching
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
sudden shortness of breath or troubled breathing
sweating
trouble recognizing objects
trouble thinking and planning
trouble walking
Back pain
breast pain
cramps
crying
euphoria
mental depression
paranoia
quick to react or overreact emotionally
rapidly changing moods
trouble sleeping
weakness
weight gain
Changes in appetite
changes in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
increased hair growth, especially on the face
patchy brown or dark brown discoloration of the skin
trouble wearing contact lenses