Common side effects of Engerix-B include: fatigue, pain at injection site, and tenderness at injection site.
Other side effects include: dizziness, fever, headache, pruritus, vertigo, ecchymoses, erythema, induration at injection site, inflammation at injection site, and swelling at injection site.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking hepatitis b adult vaccine, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
The most common adverse events were injection site reactions, headache, and fatigue.
Very common (10% or more): Injection site pain (33.
8%), injection site soreness (22%), injection site redness (15.
6%), injection site swelling (11.
7%)Common (1% to 10%): Injection site indurationUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Injection site ecchymosis, injection site pruritusPostmarketing reports: Injection site reaction
Very common (10% or more): Headache (23.
4%)Common (1% to 10%): Dizziness, drowsinessUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Somnolence, tingling, paresthesiaPostmarketing reports: Encephalitis, encephalopathy, migraine, multiple sclerosis, neuritis, neuropathy including hypoesthesia, Guillain-Barre syndrome and Bell's palsy, optic neuritis, paralysis, paresis, seizures, syncope, transverse myelitis, vertigo, demyelinating disease of the central nervous system, exacerbation of multiple sclerosis
Very common (10% or more): Fatigue (33.
8%)Common (1% to 10%): Fever, malaiseUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Chills, influenza-like symptoms, sweating, achiness, sensation of warmth, lightheadedness, flushing, earachePostmarketing reports: Tinnitus
Apparent hypersensitivity syndrome (serum sickness-like) of delayed onset has been reported days to weeks after vaccination, including: arthralgia/arthritis (usually transient), fever, and dermatologic reactions such as urticaria, erythema multiforme, ecchymosis, and erythema nodosum.
Postmarketing reports: Allergic reaction, anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, apparent hypersensitivity syndrome
Common (1% to 10%): Appetite lostUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Anorexia
Very common (10% or more): IrritabilityUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Agitation, insomnia
Common (1% to 10%): Pharyngitis, upper respiratory infectionUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Upper respiratory tract illnesses, rhinitis, cough, influenzaFrequency not reported: PharyngitisPostmarketing reports: Apnea, bronchospasm including asthma-like symptoms
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Arthralgia, back pain, myalgia, pain/stiffness in arm, shoulder, or neckPostmarketing reports: Arthritis, muscular weakness
Common (1% to 10%): Gastrointestinal symptomsUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Abdominal pain/cramps, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomitingPostmarketing reports: Dyspepsia
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): LymphadenopathyPostmarketing reports: Thrombocytopenia, increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Erythema, petechiae, pruritus, rash, sweating, urticariaPostmarketing reports: Alopecia, angioedema, eczema, erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema nodosum, lichen planus, purpura
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Flushing, hypotensionPostmarketing reports: Palpitations, tachycardia, vasculitis, syncope
Very rare (less than 0.
01%): UveitisPostmarketing reports: Conjunctivitis, keratitis, visual disturbances, optic neuritis
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Dysuria
Postmarketing reports: Abnormal liver function tests
Postmarketing reports: Herpes zoster, meningitis
Fever of 37.
7 degrees C (100 degrees F) or higher
Aches or pain in the joints, fever, or skin rash or welts (may occur days or weeks after receiving the vaccine)
blurred vision or other vision changes
confusion
difficulty with breathing or swallowing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
hives
itching, especially of the feet or hands
muscle weakness
numbness or tingling of the arms and legs
reddening of the skin, especially around the ears
sweating
swelling of the eyes, face, or inside of the nose
unusual tiredness or weakness (sudden and severe)
Dizziness
headache
soreness at the injection site
Hard lump, redness, swelling, pain, itching, purple spot, tenderness, or warmth at the injection site
unusual tiredness or weakness
Aches or pain in the muscles
agitation
back pain or stiffness or pain in neck or shoulder
chills
constipation
diarrhea
difficulty with moving
feeling of warmth
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache (mild), sore throat, runny nose, or fever (mild)
increased sweating
itching
lack of appetite or decreased appetite
nausea or vomiting
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sleeplessness
stomach cramps or pain
sudden redness of skin
swelling of glands in the armpit or neck
trouble with sleeping
unable to sleep
welts
weight loss