Common side effects of Enjuvia include: infection, upper respiratory tract infection, abdominal pain, back pain, dizziness, dyspepsia, headache, hypermenorrhea, leg cramps, paresthesia, and mastalgia.
Other side effects include: anxiety, constipation, diarrhea, hypertonia, increased cough, vaginitis, and vomiting.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Other dosage forms:
-HRT is associated with a 1.
3 to 3-fold increased relative risk of developing VTE, i.
e.
, deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism.
This event is more likely to occur in the first year of using HRT.
-The use of estrogen-only and estrogen-progestin therapy is associated with an up to 1.
5 fold increased relative risk of ischemic stroke.
-The risk of hemorrhagic stroke is not increased during use of HRT.
This relative risk is not dependent on age or on duration of use, but as the baseline risk is strongly age-dependent, the overall risk of stroke in women who use HRT will increase with age.
Common (1% to 10%): Hypertension, palpitation, vasodilationRare (less than 0.
1%): StrokePostmarketing reports: Deep and superficial venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, thrombophlebitis, myocardial infarction, stroke
Common (1% to 10%): Acne, alopecia, hirsutism, pruritus, rash, skin discoloration, sweating, fungal dermatitisPostmarketing reports: Chloasma or melasma (may persist when drug is discontinued), erythema multiforme, erythema nodosum, loss of scalp hair
Common (1% to 10%): Constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, eructation, flatulence, nauseaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Bloating, abdominal painPostmarketing reports: Vomiting, abdominal discomfort, abdominal distension
Common (1% to 10%): Pelvic pain, breast disorder, breast enlargement, breast neoplasm, breast pain, cervix disorder, dysmenorrhea, endometrial disorder, endometrial hyperplasia, leukorrhea, metrorrhagia, urinary tract infection, uterine fibroids enlarged, uterine spasm, abnormal uterine bleeding (breakthrough bleeding/spotting), vaginal dryness, vaginal hemorrhage, vaginal moniliasis, vaginitisUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Vaginal candidiasis, changes in menstrual flow, changes in cervical ectropion and secretionPostmarketing reports: Increases in seize of uterine leiomyomata, change in cervical secretion, ovarian cancer, endometrial cancer, breast tenderness, breast discharge, galactorrhea, fibrocystic breast changes, breast cancer, gynecomastia in males
Common (1% to 10%): Hyperlipidemia, weight gain, increased appetiteVery rare (less than 0.
01%): HypocalcemiaPostmarketing reports: Increase or decrease in weight, glucose intolerance, aggravation of porphyria, increased triglycerides
Common (1% to 10%): Back pain, arthralgia, leg cramps, myalgia, muscle spasm
Common (1% to 10%): Headache, dizziness, paresthesia, migraine, hypertonia, insomnia, nervousnessVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Exacerbation of choreaPostmarketing reports: Exacerbation of epilepsy, dementia
Common (1% to 10%): Accidental injury, asthenia, chills, flu syndrome, pain, edema, peripheral edema, generalized edema, moniliasisPostmarketing reports: Irritability
Common (1% to 10%): Depression, emotional liabilities, anxietyUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Changes in libido, mood disturbances
Common (1% to 10%): Chest pain, bronchitis, increased cough, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis, upper respiratory tract infectionPostmarketing reports: Exacerbation of asthma
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Gallbladder diseasePostmarketing reports: Cholestatic jaundice, pancreatitis, enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas, ischemic colitis
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): HypersensitivityRare (less than 0.
1%): Anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions including urticaria and angioedema
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Intolerance to contact lenses, steepening of corneal curvaturePostmarketing reports: Retinal vascular thrombosis
Rare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): Breast cancer, ovarian cancer, fibrocystic breast changes, growth potentiation of benign meningioma.
Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Endometrial cancer, enlargement of hepatic hemangiomas
Breast cancer: -An up to 2-fold increased risk of having breast cancer diagnosed is reported in women taking combined estrogen-progestin therapy for more than 5 years.
-Any increased risk in users of estrogen-only therapy is substantially lower than that seen in users of estrogen-progestin combinations.
The level of risk is dependent on the duration of use.
Endometrial Cancer:-Endometrial cancer risk is about 5 in every 1000 women with a uterus not using HRT.
-In women with a uterus, use of estrogen-only HRT is not recommended because it increases the risk of endometrial cancer.
-Depending on the duration of estrogen-only use and estrogen dose, the increase in risk of endometrial cancer varied from between 5 and 55 extra cases diagnosed in every 1000 women between the ages of 50 and 65.
-Adding a progestin to estrogen-only therapy for at least 12 days per cycle can prevent this increased risk.
In the Million Women Study the use of five years of combined HRT did not increase risk of endometrial cancer.
Ovarian cancer:-Long-term use of estrogen-only and combined estrogen-progestin HRT has been associated with a slightly increased risk of ovarian cancer.
In the Million Women Study 5 years of HRT resulted in 1 extra case per 2500 users.
intravenous powder for solution
Acid or sour stomach
backache
belching
breast pain
chest pain or discomfort
clear or bloody discharge from the nipple
confusion
difficulty with speaking
dimpling of the breast skin
double vision
full or bloated feeling or pressure in the stomach
headache
heartburn
inability to move the arms, legs, or facial muscles
inability to speak
indigestion
inverted nipple
loss of appetite
lump in the breast or under the arm
nausea and vomiting
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
persistent crusting or scaling of the nipple
poor insight and judgment
problems with memory or speech
redness or swelling of the breast
slow speech
sore on the skin of the breast that does not heal
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
sweating
swelling of the abdominal or stomach area
trouble recognizing objects
trouble thinking and planning
trouble walking
Burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chills
cough producing mucus
cramps
diarrhea
dizziness
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
heavy bleeding
itching of the vagina or genital area
joint pain
loss of appetite
muscle aches and pains
pain during sexual intercourse
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
passing gas
shivering
sneezing
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
sweating
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
tightness in the chest
trouble sleeping
unusual tiredness or weakness