Also, because of the way these medicines act on the body, there is a chance that they might cause other unwanted effects that may not occur until months or years after the medicine is used.
These delayed effects may include certain types of cancer, such as leukemia.
Discuss these possible effects with your doctor.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking epirubicin, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking epirubicin, get emergency help immediately:
After you stop taking this drug, it is possible that you may still experience side effects that need medical attention.
If you notice any of the following side effects check with your doctor immediately:
Hematologic effects of epirubicin when used in combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fluorouracil have been reported to include leukopenia (up to 80.
3%), neutropenia (up to 80.
3%), anemia (up to 72.
2%), and thrombocytopenia (up to 48.
4%).
Long-term hematologic effects of epirubicin when used in combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fluorouracil have been reported to include acute myelogenous leukemia (up to 0.
8%).
Postmarketing side effects have included hemorrhage.
Endocrine effects of epirubicin when used in combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fluorouracil have been reported to include amenorrhea (up to 71.
8%) and hot flashes (up to 38.
9%).
General effects of epirubicin when used in combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fluorouracil have been reported to include lethargy (up to 45.
8%) and fever (up to 5.
2%).
Postmarketing reports have included sepsis, shock, fever and chills.
Gastrointestinal effects of epirubicin when used in combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fluorouracil have been reported to include nausea/vomiting (up to 92.
4%), mucositis (up to 58.
5%), diarrhea (up to 24.
8%), and anorexia (up to 2.
9%).
Abdominal pain and hyperpigmentation of the oral mucosa has also been reported.
Postmarketing side effects have included erosions, ulcerations, pain or burning sensation, bleeding, and hyperpigmentation of the oral mucosa.
The mucositis is dose-dependent.
Clinical manifestations of mucositis may include a painful or burning sensation, erythema, erosions, ulcerations, bleeding, or infections.
Immunologic effects of epirubicin when used in combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fluorouracil have been reported to include infection (up to 21.
5%) and febrile neutropenia (up to 6.
1%).
Ocular effects of epirubicin when used in combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fluorouracil have been reported to include conjunctivitis/keratitis (up to 14.
8%).
Dermatologic effects of epirubicin when used in combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fluorouracil have been reported to include alopecia (up to 95.
5%), rash/itch (up to 8.
9%) and skin changes (up to 4.
7%).
Postmarketing side effects have included erythema, flushes, skin and nail hyperpigmentation, photosensitivity, hypersensitivity to irradiated skin (radiation-recall reaction), and urticaria.
Alopecia has been reported to usually be reversible.
Hair growth may occur within two to three months after therapy is discontinued.
Long-term cardiovascular effects of epirubicin when used in combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fluorouracil have included asymptomatic drops in LVEF (up to 1.
8%) and CHF (up to 1.
5%).
One large retrospective study reported a significantly increased risk of CHF in patients who received cumulative doses greater than 950 mg/m2.
The study also found that previous irradiation against the heart leads to an increased risk of developing CHF with an accelerated course to death.
This indicates an additive cardiotoxic effect with the use of irradiation and epirubicin.
Other serious drug-related cardiovascular adverse events that occurred during clinical trials have included ventricular tachycardia, AV block, bundle branch block, bradycardia and thromboembolism.
Postmarketing side effects have included arterial embolism, thrombophlebitis, and phlebitis.
Respiratory side effects have included postmarketing reports of pneumonia and pulmonary embolism.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included postmarketing reports of anaphylaxis.
Metabolic side effects have included postmarketing reports of dehydration and hyperuricemia.
Genitourinary side effects have included postmarketing reports of red coloration of urine for 1 to 2 days after administration and chemical cystitis (following intravesical administration).
Black, tarry stools
bleeding, redness, or ulcers in the mouth or throat
chest pain
cough or hoarseness
fever or chills
lower back or side pain
pain or burning in the mouth or throat
painful or difficult urination
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
swollen glands
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Blood in the urine or stools
pinpoint red spots on the skin
red streaks along the injected vein
Darkening or redness of the skin at place of irradiation
difficulty with breathing
fast or irregular heartbeat
joint pain
pain, redness, or warmth at the injection site
skin rash or itching
swelling of the abdomen or stomach, lower legs, and feet
swelling or tenderness of the lymph nodes, abdomen, side or lower back
wheezing
Abdominal or stomach swelling or tenderness
high fever
stomach pain
swelling of the lining of the mouth, nose, or throat
vomiting
Absent, missed, or irregular menstrual periods
burning, dry, or itching eyes
diarrhea
discharge or excessive tearing
feeling of warmth
hair loss or thinning of the hair
nausea
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
redness, pain, or swelling of the eye, eyelid, or inner lining of the eyelid
stopping of menstrual bleeding
sudden sweating
unusual drowsiness, dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness
Changes in the skin
loss of appetite
weight loss
Darkening of the soles, palms, or nails
Fast or irregular heartbeat
shortness of breath
swelling of the abdomen or stomach, feet, and lower legs