Commonly reported side effects of eplerenone include: cough, diarrhea, fatigue, and flu-like symptoms.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Metabolic side effects have included hyperkalemia (>5.
5 mEq/L).
Hyperkalemia was observed in 2.
6% of patients with creatinine clearance greater than 100 mL/min, in 5.
6% of patients with creatinine clearance of 70 to 100 mL/min, and in 10.
4% of patients with creatinine clearance less than 70 mL/min.
The principal risk of eplerenone is hyperkalemia, which can result in serious, sometimes fatal arrhythmias.
Other metabolic side effects have included hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia in 1% of patients.
Nervous system side effects have included dizziness (3%) and headache.
In a pharmacokinetic study, headache was reported in 14% to 63% of patients.
General side effects have included fatigue and influenza-like symptoms.
Renal side effects have included albuminuria in 1% of patients.
Respiratory side effects have included cough in 2% of patients.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea in 2% and abdominal pain in 1% of patients.
Endocrine side effects have included gynecomastia (up to 1%) and mastodynia (up to 1.
3%) of male patients.
Abnormal vaginal bleeding was reported in 2.
5% of female patients.
Hepatic side effects have included increases in serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and gamma glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT).
Excess of cholesterol in the blood
excess of triglycerides in the blood
Abdominal or stomach pain
arm, back, or jaw pain
chest pain or discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
confusion
difficulty with breathing
dizziness
fast or irregular heartbeat
headache
irregular heartbeat
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
nausea
nervousness
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
rash
shortness of breath
sweating
vomiting
weakness or heaviness of the legs
Abnormal vaginal bleeding
breast pain
chills
cloudy urine
cough
diarrhea
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
joint pain
loss of appetite
muscle aches and pains
swelling of the breasts or breast soreness in both females and males
unusual tiredness or weakness