Commonly reported side effects of eptifibatide include: major hemorrhage and minor hemorrhage.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Prior to approval by the FDA, the efficacy and safety of eptifibatide was evaluated in , patients.
The average age of these patients was  years (range  to ).
Eighty nine percent were Caucasian,  were Black, and  were Hispanic.
Sixty seven percent were male.
The most common side effect was bleeding.
Discontinuation of eptifibatide due to adverse events other than bleeding has been uncommon; no single event occurred in greater than  of the study population.
The overall incidence of intracranial hemorrhage or stroke in large clinical trials has ranged from  to  of patients, depending on dose.
The incidences of thrombocytopenia and the need for platelet transfusions were similar between patients who received eptifibatide and those who received placebo, suggesting a stronger relationship between these problems and the use of heparin than with the use of the study drug.
However, bleeding times and activated clotting times have been significantly higher among treated patients compared with placebo, in some cases despite receiving less heparin.
The incidence of thrombocytopenia (less than , cells/mcL) associated with eptifibatide is  to , while severe thrombocytopenia (less than , cells/mcL) has been reported in  of patients.
Platelet transfusions have been reported in  to  of patients.
The results of one study (PROTECT-TIMI- trial) indicate that in high-risk non ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and treated with eptifibatide, increased age significantly correlated with bleeding events.
Patients with reduced CrCl (less than or equal to  mL/min), given a full-dose eptifibatide infusion, were associated with a greater incidence of bleeding events.
No bleeding events occurred in patients with reduced CrCl who received a reduced dose infusion.
In addition, the majority of bleeding events occurred more than  hours after initiation of the eptifibatide infusion.
Risk factors for bleeding events in patients treated with glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa inhibitors undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention have been identified and include advanced age, renal dysfunction, female gender, peripheral vascular disease, lower body weight, duration of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor infusion, baseline platelet count, lower baseline hemoglobin, diabetes, and elevated peak activated clotting time.
According to one study (CRUSADE trial) involving patients with non ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome treated with a GPIIb/IIIa inhibitor, women are at a greater risk of bleeding than men, primarily because of excessive dosing.
Hematologic side effects have been the most common and potentially serious.
The incidences of major (intracranial hemorrhage or decreases in hemoglobin of  mg/dL or more) and minor bleeding (spontaneous gross hematuria or hematemesis, decreases in hemoglobin of less than  mg/dL) were  and  (PURSUIT study) and  and  (IMPACT II study), respectively.
The incidences of the transfusion requirements in these two studies were  and , respectively.
The overall incidence of major bleeding was strongly associated with the incidence of coronary artery bypass graft surgery, and occurred mainly at arterial puncture sites.
The next most common sites of bleeding--occurring in  to  of patients--were oropharyngeal (primarily gingival), gastrointestinal (incidences of upper and lower GI bleeding similar), genitourinary, then retroperitoneal.
In the PURSUIT study, the risk of major bleeding was inversely related to body weight; patients less than  kg showed the highest correlation.
Bleeding was cited as the reason to discontinue therapy in  to  of patients.
Fatal bleeding, thrombocytopenia, as well as cerebral, gastrointestinal and pulmonary hemorrhage (when used in combination with aspirin and heparin) have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Hypersensitivity reactions have been rare, and have included anaphylaxis in approximately  of patients.
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypotension ( versus  among placebo patients).
Other cardiovascular side effects may have been related to underlying disease as they were typical of side effects among patients with unstable angina.
Nervous system side effects have been limited to non hemorrhagic stroke in approximately  of treated and placebo patients in controlled trials.
Musculoskeletal discomfort--basically back pain--was reported in significantly more patients who received eptifibatide compared with placebo patients in the IMPACT II trial ( versus ).
Local intravenous site reactions have been reported in significantly more treated patients compared with placebo patients in controlled trials.
Arterial access sites are the most common sites of bleeding.
Immunologic side effects have included postmarketing reports of IgG antibodies related to immune-mediated thrombocytopenia.
Abdominal or stomach pain or swelling
back pain or backaches
bleeding from the bladder
bleeding gums
blood in the urine
bloody or black, tarry stools
blurred vision
confusion
constipation
coughing up blood
difficulty with breathing or swallowing
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
headache
headache, sudden and severe
increased menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding
nausea and vomiting
nosebleeds
paralysis
prolonged bleeding from cuts
red or black, tarry stools
red or dark brown urine
severe stomach pain
shortness of breath
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
weakness
Pinpoint red spots on the skin
Cough
difficulty with swallowing
fast heartbeat
hives
itching
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
skin rash
tightness in the chest
wheezing
Difficulty with speaking
double vision
inability to move the arms, legs, or facial muscles
inability to speak
slow speech