If any of the following side effects occur while taking anidulafungin, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
The most common side effects reported during studies in patients with candidemia and other Candida infections were hypokalemia, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, pyrexia, and insomnia.
Anidulafungin was discontinued in 11.
5% of patients due to side effects.
The most common side effects leading to discontinuation of anidulafungin (the active ingredient contained in Eraxis) were multi-organ failure and systemic Candida infection.
The most common side effects reported during a study in patients with esophageal candidiasis were diarrhea, pyrexia, anemia, headache, vomiting, nausea, and dyspepsia.
Anidulafungin was discontinued in 9% of patients due to side effects.
The most common side effect leading to discontinuation of anidulafungin was maculopapular rash.
Metabolic side effects have included hypokalemia (up to 25%), hypomagnesemia (12%), increased blood alkaline phosphatase (12%), hypoglycemia (7%), hyperglycemia (6%), hyperkalemia (6%), dehydration (6%), increased amylase (less than 2%), increased creatine phosphokinase (less than 2%), increased lipase (less than 2%), decreased potassium (less than 2%), decreased magnesium, hypercalcemia, and hypernatremia.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea (up to 24%), diarrhea (up to 18%), vomiting (up to 18%), constipation (8%), dyspepsia (7%), abdominal pain (6%), oral candidiasis (5%), upper abdominal pain, and fecal incontinence.
To reduce occurrence of infusion-related side effects, the rate of infusion should not exceed 1.
1 mg/minute.
Other side effects have included pyrexia (up to 18%), bacteremia (18%), peripheral edema (up to 11%), sepsis (7%), chest pain (5%), flushing (less than 2%), hot flushes (less than 2%), infusion-related reaction (less than 2%), rigors (less than 2%), clostridial infection (less than 2%), fungemia, candidiasis, multi-organ failure, and systemic Candida infection.
Infusion-related side effects, possibly histamine-mediated, have included rash, urticaria, flushing, pruritus, bronchospasm, dyspnea, and hypotension.
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypotension (15%), hypertension (12%), deep vein thrombosis (10%), phlebitis, and electrocardiogram early transition.
Atrial fibrillation, bundle branch block (right), sinus arrhythmia, superficial thrombophlebitis, electrocardiogram QT prolonged, and ventricular extrasystoles have been reported in less than 2% of patients.
Psychiatric side effects have included insomnia (15%), confusional state (8%), and depression (6%).
Genitourinary side effects have included urinary tract infection (15%).
Respiratory side effects have included dyspnea (12%), pleural effusion (10%), cough (up to 7%), pneumonia (6%), and respiratory distress (6%).
Bronchospasm has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Hematologic side effects have included anemia (up to 9%), increased white blood cell (8%), thrombocythemia (6%), leukocytosis (5%), coagulopathy (less than 2%), thrombocytopenia (less than 2%), prothrombin time prolonged (less than 2%), neutropenia, leukopenia, and increased and decreased platelet count.
Nervous system side effects have included headache (8%), convulsion (less than 2%), and dizziness (less than 2%).
Hepatic side effects have included increased hepatic enzymes (5%), ALT, and AST.
Increased gamma-glutamyltransferase, increased bilirubin, abnormal liver function tests, cholestasis, and hepatic necrosis have been reported in less than 2% of patients.
Significant hepatic dysfunction, hepatitis, and hepatic failure have been reported.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included anaphylactic shock and anaphylactic reaction during postmarketing experience.
Dermatologic side effects have included decubitus ulcer (5%), rash, generalized pruritus, and maculopapular rash.
Erythema, pruritus, increased sweating, urticaria, and angioneurotic edema have been reported in less than 2% of patients.
Renal side effects have included increased blood creatinine (5%) and urea (less than 2%).
Musculoskeletal side effects have included back pain (5%).
Ocular side effects have included eye pain, blurred vision, and visual disturbance in less than 2% of patients.
Black, tarry stools
chills
cough
decreased urine
dry mouth
fever
increased thirst
irregular heartbeat
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
mood or mental changes
muscle pain or cramps
nausea or vomiting
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet or lips
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
seizures
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Abdominal or stomach pain
back pain
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
bloody stools
bluish color of skin
blurred or loss of vision
changes in skin color
chest pain
chest tightness
clay-colored stools
constipation
dark urine
depression
diarrhea
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
drowsiness
extra heartbeats
fainting
fast heartbeat
flushed, dry skin
flushing
fruit-like breath odor
headache
hives or welts
incoherent speech
increased hunger
increased urination
irregular fast heartbeat
irritability
itching
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
light-colored stools
metallic taste
muscle spasms (tetany) or twitching
muscle weakness
nervousness
pain, redness, or swelling in the arm or leg
pain, tenderness, and swelling of foot or leg
pinpoint red spots on the skin
pounding in the ears
redness of the skin
restlessness
skin rash
slow heartbeat
sore mouth or tongue
sweating
swelling of the feet or lower legs
swollen glands
trembling
trouble breathing
unexplained weight loss
unpleasant breath odor
unusually warm skin
vomiting of blood
weakness
weight loss
white patches in the mouth or throat or on the tongue
white patches with diaper rash
yellow eyes or skin
Acid or sour stomach
belching
bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
disturbed color perception
double vision
eye pain
feeling of warmth
feeling unusually cold
halos around light
indigestion
loss of bowel control
night blindness
over bright appearance of lights
rapid weight gain
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
shivering
stomach discomfort or upset
tingling of the hands or feet
tunnel vision
unusual weight gain or loss
upper stomach pain