Other dosage forms:
The most common side effects associated with oral erythromycin (the active ingredient contained in Erythrocin) were gastrointestinal and were dose-related.
Onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms has been reported during or after antibacterial therapy.
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Pancreatitis, pancreatitis without biliary obstructionFrequency not reported: Nausea, abdominal pain, diarrhea, vomiting, anorexia, infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis, pseudomembranous colitis, Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (ranging from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis)
Life-threatening episodes of ventricular tachycardia associated with prolonged QT interval (torsades de pointes) have been reported following IV administration of erythromycin (the active ingredient contained in Erythrocin) lactobionate.
QT prolongation has been reported both in otherwise healthy patients and in patients with a history of heart disease or who were on other potentially arrhythmogenic drugs.
Most affected patients were receiving erythromycin intravenously.
In a recent retrospective study of 278 consecutive patients who had received IV erythromycin lactobionate, 39% of 49 evaluable patients developed moderate to severe delay in ventricular repolarization (QTc interval greater than or equal to 500 msec) during treatment.
Of the 278 patients, torsade de pointes was observed in one patient (less than 0.
4%).
Arrhythmias and hypotension have been reported following IV administration.
One case of erythromycin-related polymorphous ventricular tachycardia reported in a patient treated for pneumonia was characterized by a normal QT interval.
Frequency not reported: QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias, ventricular tachycardia, torsades de pointes, arrhythmias, hypotension, polymorphous ventricular tachycardiaPostmarketing reports: Torsades de pointes
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Hepatotoxicity, fulminant hepatic necrosis, false isolated elevations of serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT) enzymesFrequency not reported: Hepatic dysfunction (including increased liver enzymes), hepatocellular and/or cholestatic hepatitis (with or without jaundice), transient elevations of liver function tests, hepatitis, abnormal liver function test results, intrahepatic cholestasis
Hepatic dysfunction (including increased liver enzymes) and hepatocellular and/or cholestatic hepatitis (with or without jaundice) have been reported with oral erythromycin.
Frequency not reported: Allergic reactions (ranging from urticaria to anaphylaxis), hypersensitivity reactions (presented as rash, eosinophilia, fever), hypersensitivity with noninfectious hepatitis
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Skin rash, maculopapular rashes (generalized, pruritic)Frequency not reported: Skin reactions (ranging from mild eruptions to erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis)
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Convulsions, reversible hearing loss, reversible ototoxicityFrequency not reported: Exacerbation of myasthenia gravis symptoms, new onset of myasthenic syndrome
Reversible hearing loss was reported primarily in patients with renal dysfunction and in patients receiving high doses of erythromycin.
Several published reviews have indicated that ototoxicity was associated with erythromycin dosages greater than 4 grams per day, preexisting liver or kidney disease, and advanced age.
Recovery generally occurred within two weeks.
A case of hemolytic anemia has been reported in a patient with severe underlying diseases and erythromycin-associated hepatitis.
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Reversible agranulocytosisFrequency not reported: Hemolytic anemia
Frequency not reported: Interstitial nephritis
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Recurrent nightmares
Slow infusion of diluted erythromycin (the active ingredient contained in Erythrocin) (continuously or intermittently over no less than 20 to 60 minutes) almost invariably alleviated venous irritation.
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Venous irritation with IV administration
intravenous powder for solution
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
chills
cough
diarrhea
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
hives or welts
joint or muscle pain
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red, irritated eyes
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
redness of the skin
skin rash
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
wheezing
Abdominal or stomach cramps or tenderness
bloating
bloody or cloudy urine
chest pain or discomfort
dark urine
diarrhea, watery and severe, which may also be bloody
fainting
fever
general tiredness and weakness
greatly decreased frequency of urination or amount of urine
hearing loss
increased thirst
irregular heartbeat recurrent
irregular or slow heart rate
light-colored stools
nausea and vomiting
pain
swelling of the feet or lower legs
unusual weight loss
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
yellow eyes and skin
Abdominal or stomach pain
diarrhea (mild)
loss of appetite
weight loss