Commonly reported side effects of esmolol include: dizziness, hypotension, symptomatic hypotension, and diaphoresis.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking esmolol, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking esmolol, get emergency help immediately:
Very common (10% or more): HypotensionUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Bradycardia, atrioventricular block, pulmonary arterial pressure increased, cardiac failure, ventricular extrasystoles, nodal rhythm, angina pectoris, peripheral ischemia, pallor, flushing, chest pain, asystoleRare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): Sinus pause Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Sinus arrest, asystole, thrombophlebitisFrequency not reported: Accelerated idioventricular rhythm, coronary arteriospasm, cardiac arrest
Very common (10% or more): DiaphoresisUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Skin discoloration, erythemaVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Skin necrosis (due to extravasation)Frequency not reported: Psoriasis, angioedema, urticaria
Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, vomitingUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Dysgeusia, dyspepsia, constipation, dry mouth, abdominal pain
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Urinary retention
Common (1% to 10%): Injection site reaction, infusion site reaction, infusion site inflammation, infusion site indurationUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Infusion site burning, infusion site ecchymosisFrequency not reported: Infusion site phlebitis, infusion site vesicles, blistering
Common (1% to 10%): Dizziness, somnolence, headache, paresthesia, weaknessUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Syncope, convulsion, speech disorder, light headedness
Frequency not reported: Hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Musculoskeletal pain
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Visual impairment
Common (1% to 10%): Asthenia, fatigueUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Chills, pyrexia, edema, pain
Common (1% to 10%): Depression, anxiety, disturbance in attention, confusion, agitationUncommon (less than 1%): Abnormal thinking
Uncommon (less than 1%): Dyspnea, pulmonary edema, bronchospasm, wheezing, nasal congestion, rhonchi, rales
Blurred vision
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly
increased sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness
Itching of skin
numbness and tingling of face, fingers, or toes
pain in arms, legs, or lower back, especially pain in calves and/or heels upon exertion
pale, bluish-colored, or cold hands or feet
weak or absent pulses in legs
Blue lips and fingernails
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
changes in skin color
changes in vision
chest pain or discomfort
convulsions
coughing that sometimes produces a pink frothy sputum
decrease in frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
delusions
dementia
difficult, fast, noisy breathing, sometimes with wheezing
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
difficulty with speaking
feeling of warmth
feeling unusually cold
lightheadedness, dizziness, or fainting
loss of bladder control
muscle spasm or jerking of all extremities
no heartbeat
pain, tenderness, or swelling of foot or leg
painful urination
paleness of skin
peeling of skin
redness of the face, neck, arms and occasionally, upper chest
shivering
shortness of breath
slow or irregular heartbeat
small clicking, bubbling, or rattling sounds in the lung when listening with a stethoscope
sudden loss of consciousness
swelling, redness, or burning of skin where the needle is placed
tightness in chest
Dilated neck veins
extreme fatigue
irregular breathing
no blood pressure or pulse
stopping of heart
swelling of face, fingers, feet, or lower legs
unconsciousness
weight gain
Hardening or thickening of skin where the needle is placed
nausea
Anxiety
dry mouth
headache
hyperventilation
irritability
nervousness
restlessness
shaking
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
trouble sleeping
vomiting
Acid or sour stomach
belching
change in taste or bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
discouragement
feeling sad or empty
heartburn
indigestion
lack of appetite
lack or loss of strength
loss of interest or pleasure
shoulder pain
stomach soreness, discomfort, upset, or pain
stuffy nose
tiredness
trouble concentrating
weight loss