More frequent side effects include: first degree atrioventricular block.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
In clinical trials, safety of this drug was evaluated in HIV-1-infected, antiretroviral therapy-naive patients using the individual components with other antiretrovirals for at least 48 weeks.
In 1 trial, atazanavir and cobicistat were used with emtricitabine-tenofovir (cobicistat-boosted group); in another trial, atazanavir and ritonavir were used with emtricitabine-tenofovir (ritonavir-boosted group).
In the cobicistat-boosted group, the most common side effects were jaundice, ocular icterus, and nausea; in the ritonavir-boosted group, the most common side effects were jaundice, ocular icterus, nausea, and diarrhea.
Study treatment was discontinued due to side effects in 7% of patients in both the cobicistat- and the ritonavir-boosted groups.
Most of the side effects included from clinical trials were of at least moderate intensity (grade 2 or higher).
The manufacturer product information for atazanavir and cobicistat should be consulted for additional safety information.
Increases in total bilirubin greater than 2.
5 times the upper limit of normal (2.
5 x ULN) was reported in 65% of patients in the cobicistat-boosted group and 56% in the ritonavir-boosted group.
Increased ALT (greater than 5 x ULN), AST (greater than 5 x ULN), and GGT (greater than 5 x ULN) were reported in 3%, 3%, and 2% of patients in the cobicistat-boosted group, respectively, and 2%, 2%, and 1% of patients in the ritonavir-boosted group, respectively.
Jaundice was reported in the cobicistat-boosted group (all grades: 13%; grades 2 to 4: 5%) and the ritonavir-boosted group (all grades: 11%; grades 2 to 4: 3%).
Most patients taking atazanavir experienced asymptomatic elevations in indirect (unconjugated) bilirubin related to inhibition of UGT.
This hyperbilirubinemia was reversible upon discontinuation of atazanavir.
Very common (10% or more): Increased total bilirubin (65%), jaundice (up to 13%)Common (1% to 10%): Increased ALT, increased AST, increased GGTAtazanavir:-Very common (10% or more): Elevated indirect (unconjugated) bilirubin/hyperbilirubinemia, UDP-glucuronosyl transferase (UGT) inhibited, jaundice, increased total bilirubin-Common (1% to 10%): Increased ALT, increased AST, increased GGT-Postmarketing reports: Hepatic function abnormalities, cholelithiasis, cholecystitis, cholestasis
Ocular icterus was reported in the cobicistat-boosted group (all grades: 15%; grades 2 to 4: 3%) and the ritonavir-boosted group (all grades: 17%; grades 2 to 4: 1%).
Very common (10% or more): Ocular icterus (up to 15%)Atazanavir:-Very common (10% or more): Ocular icterus
Very common (10% or more): Nausea (up to 12%)Common (1% to 10%): Increased lipase, increased serum amylaseFrequency not reported: Diarrhea, vomiting, upper abdominal painAtazanavir:-Very common (10% or more): Nausea, diarrhea-Common (1% to 10%): Increased lipase, increased serum amylase-Postmarketing reports: Pancreatitis
Nausea was reported in the cobicistat-boosted group (all grades: 12%; grades 2 to 4: 2%) and the ritonavir-boosted group (all grades: 11%; grades 2 to 4: 2%).
Diarrhea (all grades) was reported in 11% of patients in the ritonavir-boosted group.
Increased serum amylase (greater than 2 x ULN) was reported in 4% and 2% of patients in the cobicistat-boosted and ritonavir-boosted groups, respectively.
If serum amylase was greater than 1.
5 x ULN, lipase was also measured.
Increased lipase (grades 3 to 4) was reported in 9% and 6% of patients in the cobicistat-boosted and ritonavir-boosted groups, respectively.
Common (1% to 10%): Rash (rash events included allergic dermatitis, drug hypersensitivity, generalized pruritus, eosinophilic pustular folliculitis, rash, generalized rash, macular rash, maculopapular rash, morbilliform rash, papular rash, urticaria)Atazanavir:-Common (1% to 10%): Rash events-Frequency not reported: Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, toxic skin eruptions, drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome, mild-to-moderate maculopapular skin eruptions-Postmarketing reports: Alopecia, maculopapular rash, pruritus, angioedema
Rash events (grades 2 to 4) were reported in 5% and 4% of patients in the cobicistat-boosted and ritonavir-boosted groups, respectively.
Common (1% to 10%): Increased creatine kinaseFrequency not reported: RhabdomyolysisAtazanavir:-Common (1% to 10%): Increased creatine kinase-Postmarketing reports: Arthralgia
Increased creatine kinase (at least 10 x ULN) was reported in 5% and 6% of patients in the cobicistat-boosted and ritonavir-boosted groups, respectively.
Nephrolithiasis has been reported with atazanavir.
In clinical trials, nephrolithiasis was reported in 2% of patients in the cobicistat-boosted group and no patients in the ritonavir-boosted group.
Onset of nephrolithiasis was about 24 weeks in the cobicistat-boosted group.
In clinical trials, serum creatinine increased and estimated CrCl decreases occurred early during therapy in the cobicistat-boosted group after which they stabilized.
After 48 weeks of therapy, eGFR (based on CrCl) change averaged -13.
4 mL/min in the cobicistat-boosted group and -9.
1 mL/min in the ritonavir-boosted group.
Renal impairment (including acute renal failure and Fanconi syndrome) has been reported when cobicistat was used in a regimen containing tenofovir.
In clinical trials over 48 weeks (n=771), 6 (1.
5%) patients using atazanavir, cobicistat, and tenofovir discontinued therapy due to a renal side effect; 5 patients had laboratory findings consistent with proximal renal tubulopathy.
None of the 5 patients had baseline renal dysfunction (e.
g.
, estimated CrCl less than 70 mL/min).
Laboratory findings in these 5 patients improved but did not completely resolve in all patients when therapy was stopped.
No patients required renal replacement therapy.
Common (1% to 10%): NephrolithiasisFrequency not reported: Decreased estimated CrCl, increased serum creatinine, decreased estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR; based on CrCl), nephropathy, Fanconi syndrome, laboratory findings consistent with proximal renal tubulopathyAtazanavir:-Frequency not reported: Decreased eGFR-Postmarketing reports: Nephrolithiasis, interstitial nephritisCobicistat:-Frequency not reported: Decreased estimated CrCl, increased serum creatinine, tubular secretion of creatinine inhibited (actual renal glomerular function not affected), decreased eGFR, renal impairment (including acute renal failure, Fanconi syndrome)
Increased urine RBC (greater than 75 RBC/high power field) and urine glucose (at least 1000 mg/dL) have been reported in 3% and 3% of patients in the cobicistat-boosted group, respectively, and 2% and 1% of patients in the ritonavir-boosted group, respectively.
Common (1% to 10%): Hematuria (increased urine RBC), glycosuria (increased urine glucose)Atazanavir:-Common (1% to 10%): Increased urine RBC, increased urine glucose
Frequency not reported: Increased fasted total cholesterol, increased fasted high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, increased fasted low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, increased fasted triglyceridesAtazanavir:-Postmarketing reports: New onset diabetes mellitus, exacerbation of preexisting diabetes mellitus, hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosisCombination antiretroviral therapy:-Frequency not reported: Redistribution/accumulation of body fat (including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement, peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, "cushingoid appearance")
Frequency not reported: Headache
Frequency not reported: FatigueAtazanavir:-Postmarketing reports: Edema
Frequency not reported: Depression, abnormal dreams, insomnia
Atazanavir:-Common (1% to 10%): First-degree atrioventricular (AV) block-Frequency not reported: Prolongation of the PR interval, abnormalities in AV conduction, other conduction abnormalities-Postmarketing reports: Second-degree AV block, third-degree AV block, left bundle branch block, QTc prolongation
Atazanavir:-Frequency not reported: Immune reconstitution syndromeCombination antiretroviral therapy:-Frequency not reported: Immune reconstitution syndrome, autoimmune disorders in the setting of immune reconstitution (e.
g.
, Graves' disease, polymyositis, Guillain-Barre syndrome)
Protease inhibitor therapy:-Frequency not reported: Increased bleeding (including spontaneous skin hematomas, hemarthrosis) in hemophiliacs
Abdominal or stomach pain
chills
clay-colored stools
dark urine
dizziness
fever
headache
itching or rash
loss of appetite
nausea
unpleasant breath odor
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin
Abdominal or stomach fullness or tenderness
black, tarry stools
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
blood in the urine
chest pain
clay colored stools
decreased appetite
diarrhea
gaseous abdominal or stomach pain
joint or muscle pain
pain in the groin or genitals
painful or difficult urination
recurrent fever
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
sharp back pain just below the ribs
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
swelling of the feet or lower legs
swollen glands
unusual bleeding or bruising