In clinical trials of up to  years duration, a  or greater reduction in forced expiratory volume (FEV) occurred in  of patients treated with inhaled insulin compared with a  decline in patients receiving comparator anti-diabetes treatment.
Patients with chronic lung disease were not included in these studies.
The FEV decline occurred during the first  months and persisted; it did not appear to worsen with increased duration of use.
The changes in FEV were similar in patients with type  and type  diabetes mellitus.
Very common ( or more): Cough ( to )Common ( to ): Bronchitis, productive cough, decreased pulmonary function test
Very common ( or more): Hypoglycemia, non-severe Common ( to ): Hypoglycemia, severe Uncommon ( to ): Diabetic ketoacidosis Frequency not reported: Weight gain
Diabetic ketoacidosis:In patients with type  diabetes, diabetic ketoacidosis occurred in  (n= ) of patients who received inhaled insulin compared with  (n=) of patients receiving subcutaneous insulin.
Hypoglycemia:The incidence of non-severe hypoglycemia in patients with type  diabetes was .
The incidence of severe hypoglycemia was reported at .
A severe episode was defined as a hypoglycemic event requiring assistance of another person and associated with either a blood glucose value consistent with hypoglycemia or prompt recovery following treatment.
A non-severe episode was defined as symptoms of hypoglycemia with or without a low blood glucose value.
The incidence of hypoglycemia was not reported for patients with type  diabetes.
Weight gain:In patients with type  diabetes mellitus who received inhaled insulin therapy, a mean weight gain of  kg occurred compared with a mean weight loss of  kg in placebo-treated patients.
Common ( to ): Diarrhea, nausea
The most common adverse reactions reported included hypoglycemia, cough, throat pain or irritation.
The most common reason for drug discontinuation was cough.
Common ( to ): Throat pain or irritation
Common ( to ): Urinary tract infection
During clinical trials,  cases of lung cancer were reported; in both cases, heavy tobacco use was reported.
Following completion of clinical trials,  cases of squamous cell lung cancer were reported in non-smokers.
Frequency not reported: Lung cancer
Common ( to ): Fatigue
Common ( to ): Headache
Anxiety
blurred vision
chills
cold sweats
coma
confusion
cool, pale skin
cough
depression
dizziness
fast heartbeat
headache
increased hunger
nausea
nightmares
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
unusual tiredness or weakness
Difficulty breathing
difficulty swallowing
hives, itching, or skin rash
noisy breathing
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
tightness in the chest
Diarrhea
sore throat
Weight gain