More frequently reported side effects include: peripheral edema and headache.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Side effects of felodipine were generally mild and transient.
The most common side effects reported with felodipine given at  to  mg per day were peripheral edema and headache.
Therapy was discontinued due to adverse drug events in about  of patients, primarily for peripheral edema, headache or flushing.
A dose of  mg per day has been evaluated in some clinical trials.
Although  mg per day increased the antihypertensive effect of felodipine, a disproportionate increase in side effects, especially those associated with vasodilatory effects, was reported.
Peripheral edema was generally mild, but it was age and dose related.
It resulted in treatment discontinuation in about  of patients.
Other side effects have included peripheral edema (up to ), flushing (up to ), asthenia (up to ), warm sensation (up to ), chest pain, facial edema, and influenza-like illness.
Nervous system side effects have included headache (up to ), dizziness (up to ), paresthesia (up to ), syncope, insomnia, and somnolence.
Cardiovascular side effects have included palpitation (up to ), myocardial infarction, hypotension, angina pectoris, arrhythmia, tachycardia, premature beats, and leukocytoclastic vasculitis.
A few rare cases of felodipine-induced telangiectasia have been reported.
Gingival hyperplasia has been avoided or has regressed with good dental hygiene.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included dyspepsia (up to ), nausea (up to ), constipation , abdominal pain, diarrhea, vomiting, dry mouth, flatulence, and acid regurgitation.
Gingival hyperplasia, usually mild, has been reported in less than  of patients.
Respiratory side effects have included upper respiratory infection (up to ), cough (up to ), rhinorrhea (up to ), sneezing (up to ), dyspnea, pharyngitis, bronchitis, influenza, sinusitis, epistaxis, and respiratory infection.
Dermatologic side effects have included rash (up to ), angioedema, contusion, erythema, and urticaria.
Hematologic side effects have included anemia.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgia, back pain, leg pain, foot pain, muscle cramps, myalgia, arm pain, knee pain, and hip pain.
Hepatic side effects have included elevated ALT (SGPT) and unspecified serum transaminases.
In clinical studies, one of two episodes of elevated serum transaminases decreased following drug discontinuation; no follow-up was available for the second patient.
Psychiatric system side effects have included depression, anxiety disorders, irritability, nervousness, and decreased libido.
Genitourinary side effects have included gynecomastia, impotence, urinary frequency, urinary urgency, dysuria, and polyuria.
Ocular system side effects have included visual disturbances.
Bloating or swelling of face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
rapid weight gain
tingling of hands or feet
unusual weight gain or loss
Body aches or pain
chills
cough
difficulty in breathing
ear congestion
fever
headache
loss of voice
nasal congestion
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness
Blurred vision
chest pain, tightness, or heaviness
confusion
congestion
cough producing mucus
diarrhea
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly
fast, slow, or irregular heartbeat
general feeling of discomfort or illness
hoarseness
joint pain
large, hive-like swelling on face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
muscle aches and pains
nausea
pain or discomfort in arms, jaw, back, or neck
pale skin
shivering
shortness of breath
sweating
swelling or puffiness of face
tender or swollen glands in neck
trouble in swallowing
trouble sleeping
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
voice changes
wheezing
Feeling of warmth
redness of the face, neck, arms and occasionally, upper chest
Acid or sour stomach
belching
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
constipation
heartburn
indigestion
lack or loss of strength
skin rash
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
Bleeding gums
irritation in mouth
redness and swelling of gums
Bloated or full feeling
bloody nose
burning while urinating
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
difficult or painful urination
difficulty in moving
discouragement
disturbed color perception
double vision
dry mouth
excess air or gas in stomach or intestines
feeling sad or empty
fear or nervousness
frequent strong or increased urge to urinate
halos around lights
hives or welts
inability to have or keep an erection
increased need to urinate
increased volume of pale or dilute urine
irritability
itching
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
loss of interest or pleasure
muscle cramps or stiffness
night blindness
overbright appearance of lights
pain or tenderness around eyes and cheekbones
passing gas
passing urine more often
redness of skin
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sleeplessness
sores, welting, or blisters
swelling of the breasts or breast soreness in both females and males
swollen joints
tiredness
trouble concentrating
tunnel vision
unable to sleep