If any of the following side effects occur while taking sodium ferric gluconate complex, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Hypersensitivity reactions, including rare cases of life-threatening reactions, have been reported in patients receiving injectable iron products.
In a postmarketing safety study, hypersensitivity reactions were reported in 0.
8% of the patients who received one dose of sodium ferric gluconate complex (the active ingredient contained in Ferrlecit) 
One case of a life-threatening hypersensitivity reaction (diaphoresis, nausea, vomiting, severe lower back pain, dyspnea, wheezing for 20 minutes) was observed out of 1,097 patients who received a single dose of sodium ferric gluconate complex in a postmarketing safety study.
Eight other patients had reactions that, in the view of the investigator, precluded further administration of the drug.
Six of these patients experienced symptoms such as pruritus, facial flushing, chills, dyspnea/chest pain, and rash; two experienced nausea and hypotension.
Another two patients experienced allergic reactions not deemed to be indicative of drug intolerance (nausea/malaise and nausea/dizziness).
Patients who had demonstrated prior sensitivity to iron dextran (6.
6% in the study) had an increased risk of adverse reaction to sodium ferric gluconate complex.
The incidences of both drug intolerance and suspected allergic events following the first dose of sodium ferric gluconate complex were 2.
8% in patients with prior iron dextran sensitivity compared to 0.
8% in patients without prior iron dextran sensitivity.
The patient who experienced a life-threatening reaction to sodium ferric gluconate complex had a previous severe anaphylactic reaction to iron dextran.
Concomitant ACE inhibitor use (28% in the study) also appeared to be a risk factor.
The incidences of both drug intolerance and suspected allergic events following the first dose of sodium ferric gluconate complex were 1.
6% in patients on concomitant ACE inhibitor therapy compared to 0.
7% in patients not using an ACE inhibitor.
One patient had facial flushing immediately upon exposure to sodium ferric gluconate complex, but it resolved rapidly and spontaneously without intervention other than drug withdrawal, and no hypotension developed.
The patient with the life-threatening event was not on ACE inhibitor therapy.
In two multiple-dose clinical studies, no fatal hypersensitivity reactions occurred among the 126 patients who received sodium ferric gluconate complex.
Hypersensitivity events resulting in premature study discontinuation occurred in three out of 88 (3.
4%) treated patients in one study.
None of the 38 patients in the other study experienced hypersensitivity reactions.
However, it should be noted that cramps, pain, nausea, rash, flushing, pruritus, and dyspnea are also common symptoms associated with chronic renal failure.
Hypotensive reactions are not related to hypersensitivity and have usually resolved within one or two hours.
Volume expansion may be considered if hypotension is symptomatic.
The incidence of hypotension following administration of injectable iron products may be related to the rate of administration and total dose administered.
Hypotensive events were observed in 22 out of 1,097 patients following administration of sodium ferric gluconate complex (the active ingredient contained in Ferrlecit) in a postmarketing safety study.
Hypotension has also been reported in European case reports.
Of 226 renal dialysis patients exposed to sodium ferric gluconate complex reported in the literature, three (1.
3%) patients experienced hypotensive events, which were accompanied by flushing in two.
Among 126 patients who received sodium ferric gluconate complex in two multiple-dose clinical studies, one patient experienced a transient decreased level of consciousness without hypotension.
Another patient discontinued treatment prematurely because of dizziness, lightheadedness, diplopia, malaise, and weakness without hypotension that required a brief hospitalization for observation.
The syndrome resolved spontaneously.
Cardiovascular side effects associated with intravenous administration of iron have primarily included hypotension characterized by lightheadedness, malaise, fatigue, weakness, or severe pain in the chest, back, flanks, or groin.
Hypotension was reported in 2% of the patients in a single-dose postmarketing safety study and 29% of patients in two multiple-dose clinical studies.
Hypertension and chest pain occurred in less than 1% of patients in the single-dose study, and 13% and 10% of patients, respectively, in the multiple-dose studies.
Other cardiovascular side effects reported in the multiple-dose studies have included syncope (6%), tachycardia (5%), bradycardia, vasodilatation, angina pectoris, myocardial infarction, and pulmonary edema.
Phlebitis and shock have been reported in postmarketing use.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
These events occurred in 2% of patients in a single-dose postmarketing safety study and 35% of patients in two multiple-dose clinical studies.
Other gastrointestinal side effects reported in the multiple-dose studies have included abdominal pain (6%), anorexia, dyspepsia, eructation, flatulence, and melena.
At least two patients reported dry mouth in the single-dose study.
Dysgeusia has been reported in postmarketing use.
Local side effects have included injection site reactions, reported in 33% of patients in two multiple-dose clinical studies.
Other local effects have included abscess and arm pain.
General side effects reported in two multiple-dose clinical studies have included pain (10%), asthenia (7%), fatigue (6%), fever (5%), generalized edema (5%), peripheral edema, malaise, chills, infection, and flu-like syndrome.
Nervous system side effects reported in two multiple-dose clinical studies have included dizziness (13%), headache (7%), paresthesias (6%), agitation, and somnolence.
Hypoesthesia, loss of consciousness, and convulsion have been reported in postmarketing use.
Respiratory side effects reported in two multiple-dose clinical studies have included dyspnea (11%), cough (6%), upper respiratory infections (6%), rhinitis, and pneumonia.
Musculoskeletal side effects reported in two multiple-dose clinical studies have included leg cramps (10%), rigors, myalgia, arthralgia, and back pain.
Dermatologic side effects reported in two multiple-dose clinical studies have included pruritus (6%), rash, and increased sweating.
Skin discoloration and pallor have been reported in postmarketing use.
Hematologic side effects reported in two multiple-dose clinical studies have included abnormal erythrocytes (11%), anemia, leukocytosis, and lymphadenopathy.
Metabolic side effects reported in two multiple-dose clinical studies have included hyperkalemia (6%), hypoglycemia, hypervolemia, and hypokalemia.
Abdominal or stomach pain
anxiety
arm, back, or jaw pain
bladder pain
bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
bloody or cloudy urine
bloody, black, or tarry stools
blue lips and fingernails
blurred vision
chest pain or discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
cold sweats
confusion
convulsions
cool, pale skin
cough or hoarseness
coughing that sometimes produces a pink frothy sputum
decreased level of consciousness
decreased urine
depression
diarrhea
difficult or labored breathing
difficult, burning, or painful urination
difficult, fast, or noisy breathing, sometimes with wheezing
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
dry mouth
eye pain
fainting
fast or slow heartbeat
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
feeling of warmth or heat
fever or chills
flushing or redness of the skin, especially on the face and neck
frequent urge to urinate
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
increased hunger
increased sweating
increased thirst
irregular heartbeat
joint pain
leg cramps
lightheadedness
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
mood changes
muscle aches and pains
muscle cramps
nausea or vomiting
nervousness
nightmares
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
pale skin
pounding in the ears
rapid weight gain
rapid, shallow breathing
runny nose
shakiness
shivering
shortness of breath
slow or irregular heartbeat
slurred speech
sore throat
sweating
swelling in the legs and ankles
swollen, painful, or tender lymph glands in the neck, armpit, or groin
tenderness, pain, swelling, warmth, skin discoloration, and prominent superficial veins over the affected area
trouble sleeping
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight gain or loss
weakness or heaviness of the legs
weight gain
wheezing
Bleeding gums
bluish color
changes in skin color
cold, clammy skin
coughing up blood
excessive muscle tone
face is warm or hot to touch
fast, weak pulse
hives
increased menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding
itching
muscle stiffness
muscle tension or tightness
nosebleeds
paralysis
prolonged bleeding from cuts
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red or black, tarry stools
red or dark brown urine
skin rash
sweating
tenderness
Accumulation of pus
acid or sour stomach
anxiety
belching
bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site
body aches or pain
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
burning, dry, or itching eyes
cramps
deafness
difficulty with moving
discharge or excessive tearing
double vision
ear congestion
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
feeling unusually cold
full feeling
heartburn
hyperventilation
increased sweating
indigestion
irritability
longer or heavier menstrual periods
loss of appetite
loss of voice
passing of gas
redness, pain, or swelling of the eye, eyelid, or inner lining of the eyelid
restlessness
rolling of the eyes
seeing double
shivering
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sneezing
stomach discomfort or upset
swollen, red, or tender area of infection
voice changes
watery eyes
weight loss
Change in taste
loss of taste