Other dosage forms:
The most serious side effects reported with metronidazole (the active ingredient contained in Flagyl ER) have included convulsive seizures, encephalopathy, aseptic meningitis, optic and peripheral neuropathy (primarily characterized by numbness or paresthesia of an extremity).
Persistent peripheral neuropathy has been reported with prolonged oral administration of metronidazole.
Headache  and dizziness  were reported in patients using the extended-release tablet formulation.
Headaches were considered severe in  of these patients.
A rare but serious side effect of metronidazole (the active ingredient contained in Flagyl ER) was peripheral neuropathy which was thought to be related to dose and duration of therapy.
Most cases occurred after doses of  to  mg per day for at least  days, or a total dose of  grams.
Neuropathy was generally located in the lower extremities and presented with numbness, tingling, and paresthesias.
Patients should be advised to discontinue metronidazole if they experience these effects.
Neuropathy may be persistent despite discontinuation of metronidazole.
Seizures associated with metronidazole were rare, but did occur.
Several cases of MRI abnormalities of the dentate nuclei associated with symptoms of ataxia and dysarthria have been reported.
The symptoms and dentate nuclei lesions resolved several weeks after discontinuation of metronidazole.
These symptoms and metronidazole-induced lesions in the brain stem and cerebellar nuclei have also been described in rat studies.
Very common ( or more): HeadacheCommon ( to ): DizzinessFrequency not reported: Encephalopathy, aseptic meningitis, peripheral neuropathy (characterized mainly by numbness or paresthesia of an extremity), convulsive seizures, vertigo, syncope, incoordination, ataxia, confusion, dysarthria, weakness, reversible abnormalities in the cerebellar dentate nuclei
Very common ( or more): NauseaCommon ( to ): Taste perversion (metallic taste), abdominal pain, diarrhea, dry mouthRare (less than ): Pseudomembranous colitis, pancreatitisFrequency not reported: Sharp unpleasant metallic taste, vomiting, abdominal discomfort, epigastric distress, abdominal cramping, constipation, proctitis, coating of the tongue (furry tongue), glossitis, stomatitis, taste of alcoholic beverages modified
Nausea , taste perversion (metallic taste; ), abdominal pain , diarrhea , and dry mouth  in patients using the extended-release tablet formulation.
Nausea was considered severe in less than  of these patients.
Furry tongue, glossitis, and stomatitis may be associated with sudden overgrowth of Candida.
Although metronidazole has been used to treat pseudomembranous colitis, it has rarely also been implicated as a causative agent.
These rare cases have been successfully treated with vancomycin.
Very common ( or more): VaginitisCommon ( to ): Genital pruritus, abnormal urine, dysmenorrhea, urinary tract infectionRare (less than ): Darkened urineFrequency not reported: Dysuria, cystitis, polyuria, incontinence, vulvovaginal candidiasis, vaginal itching, dyspareunia, sense of pelvic pressure
Vaginitis , genital pruritus , abnormal urine , dysmenorrhea , and urinary tract infection  were reported in patients using the extended-release tablet formulation.
Instances of darkened urine have been investigated.
The pigment responsible has not been positively identified; however, it is most likely a metabolite of metronidazole and appears to have no clinical significance.
Bacterial infection , influenza-like symptoms , and moniliasis  were reported in patients using the extended-release tablet formulation.
A disulfiram-like reaction has been reported in some patients drinking ethanol while taking metronidazole (the active ingredient contained in Flagyl ER)   Patients have experienced abdominal distress, vomiting, flushing, nausea, headache, and hypotension.
Patients should be advised to refrain from all forms of ethanol while taking metronidazole and for at least  hours after the last dose.
Common ( to ): Bacterial infection, influenza-like symptoms, moniliasisFrequency not reported: Fever, overgrowth of Candida, disulfiram-like reaction (abdominal distress, nausea, vomiting, flushing, hypotension, or headache) with ethanol
Upper respiratory tract infection , rhinitis , sinusitis , and pharyngitis  were reported in patients using the extended-release tablet formulation.
Common ( to ): Upper respiratory tract infection, rhinitis, sinusitis, pharyngitis
Metronidazole (the active ingredient contained in Flagyl ER) has rarely been associated with a serum sickness-like reaction which presented as arthralgias, malaise, fever, chills, pruritus, and rash.
Rare (less than ): Serum sickness-like reactionFrequency not reported: Hypersensitivity (including urticaria, erythematous rash, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, flushing, nasal congestion, dryness of the mouth [or vagina or vulva], fever), fixed drug eruptions, cross-sensitivity to other nitroimidazole derivatives
Rare (less than ): Reversible thrombocytopeniaFrequency not reported: Reversible neutropenia (leukopenia)
Frequency not reported: Flattening of the T-wave in ECG tracings
Frequency not reported: Erythematous rash, pruritus
Frequency not reported: Thrombophlebitis (after IV infusion)
Thrombophlebitis can be minimized or avoided by avoiding prolonged use of indwelling IV catheters.
Frequency not reported: Irritability, depression, decreased libido, insomnia, disorientation, agitation, hallucinations
Frequency not reported: Optic neuropathy
Frequency not reported: Anorexia
Frequency not reported: Fleeting joint pains (sometimes resembling "serum sickness")
Breast and colon cancer have been reported in Crohn's disease patients treated with high doses of metronidazole (the active ingredient contained in Flagyl ER) for extended periods of time.
Frequency not reported: Breast cancer, colon cancer
intravenous powder for solution, intravenous solution
Agitation
back pain
blindness
blurred vision
burning, numbness, tingling, or painful sensations in the hands or feet
changes in speech patterns
confusion
convulsions
decreased vision
depression
dizziness
drowsiness
eye pain
fever
hallucinations
headache
irritability
lack of coordination
nausea
seizures
shakiness and unsteady walk
slurred speech
stiff neck or back
trouble speaking
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
weakness in the arms, hands, legs, or feet
Black, tarry stools
blood in the urine or stools
body aches or pain
chills
clumsiness or unsteadiness
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
feeling of pelvic pressure
frequent or painful urination
loss of voice
nasal congestion
pinpoint red spots on the skin
runny nose
skin rash, hives, redness, or itching
sneezing
stomach and back pain (severe)
unusual bleeding or bruising
vaginal irritation, discharge, or dryness not present before taking the medicine
Bleeding gums
bloating
chest pain
constipation
cough
dark-colored urine
fast heartbeat
indigestion
loss of appetite
painful or difficult urination
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swollen glands
yellow eyes or skin 
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloody or cloudy urine
burning while urinating
continuing diarrhea
continuing stomach pain
diarrhea
feeling of warmth
increased volume of pale, dilute urine
joint or muscle pain
loss of bladder control
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
redness of the skin
Abdominal or stomach cramps
dizziness or lightheadedness
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
heartburn
sensation of spinning
trouble sleeping
weight loss
Change in taste sensation
congestion
dry mouth
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
tender, swollen glands in the neck
trouble with swallowing
unpleasant or sharp metallic taste
voice changes
Decreased interest in sexual intercourse
inability to have or keep an erection
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
painful sexual intercourse