If any of the following side effects occur while taking foscarnet, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Renal impairment was the major toxicity of this drug.
The most frequent side effects reported during clinical trials included fever, nausea, anemia, diarrhea, abnormal renal function, vomiting, headache, and seizures.
Severe side effects included death, abnormal renal function, bone marrow suppression, anemia, and seizures.
Very common (10% or more): Renal impairment (up to 33%), abnormal renal function (up to 27%), increased serum creatinineCommon (1% to 10%): Altered renal function, decreased CrCl, increased BUN, acute renal failure, renal painUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Renal tubular disorderFrequency not reported: Increased serum creatinine to greater than 2.
9 mg/dL, acute tubular necrosis, drug crystals in renal tubules and capillaries, nephrotoxicityPostmarketing reports: Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, renal tubular acidosis, renal calculus, renal tubular necrosis, crystal-induced nephropathy
About 33% of AIDS patients with CMV retinitis who used this drug without adequate hydration reported significant renal impairment (serum creatinine at least 2 mg/dL).
When administered with 1000 mL of normal saline or 5% dextrose solution, the incidence decreased to 12%.
Renal side effects were due to acute tubular necrosis, possibly from deposition of drug crystals in the renal tubules and capillaries.
The development of nephrotoxicity was most common during the third week of therapy in 1 study.
Nephrotoxicity was reversible in patients with previously adequate renal function.
Hydration with 2.
5 liters of normal saline per day beginning the day before therapy decreased the incidence of nephrotoxicity.
Very common (10% or more): Serum electrolyte changes, mineral and electrolyte imbalances, hypokalemia (up to 48%), hypocalcemia (up to 30%), hypomagnesemia (up to 30%), hypophosphatemia (up to 26%), decreased appetite, anorexiaCommon (1% to 10%): Hyperphosphatemia, abnormal albumin to globulin ratio, hyponatremia, decreased weight, increased alkaline phosphatase, increased lactate dehydrogenase, acidosis, cachexia, thirstUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Dehydration, hypoproteinemiaFrequency not reported: Hypercalcemia.
, decreased serum ionized calcium levels
The higher percentages of serum electrolyte changes (including hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, hypomagnesemia, hypophosphatemia, hyperphosphatemia) were reported in patients receiving hydration.
Serum ionized calcium levels have been shown to decrease acutely in a dose-dependent manner after an infusion of this drug.
Total calcium and phosphate levels were not significantly affected.
This drug is believed to complex with ionized calcium.
More severe metabolic abnormalities have resulted in tremors, twitches, arrhythmias, paresthesias, and seizures.
Very common (10% or more): Nausea (up to 47%), diarrhea (up to 30%), vomiting (up to 26%)Common (1% to 10%): Abdominal pain, constipation, dysphagia, dyspepsia, rectal hemorrhage, dry mouth, melena, flatulence, ulcerative stomatitis, pancreatitisUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Increased amylaseFrequency not reported: Uvula ulcerationPostmarketing reports: Esophageal ulceration
In controlled trials, death was specifically attributed to this drug in 1 case; however, other drug complications (e.
g.
, renal impairment, electrolyte abnormalities, seizures) may have contributed to patient deaths.
Very common (10% or more): Fever/pyrexia (up to 65%), death (up to 14%), fatigue, asthenia, chillsCommon (1% to 10%): Rigors, malaise, pain, infection, sepsis, chest pain, edema, influenza-like symptoms, bacterial infections, moniliasis, fungal infections, abscess, facial edemaFrequency not reported: Catheterization-related infection, hospitalization, drug accumulation in teeth and bones
Very common (10% or more): Anemia (up to 33%), granulocytopenia (up to 17%), decreased hemoglobinCommon (1% to 10%): Marrow suppression, neutropenia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, platelet abnormalities, thrombosis, white blood cell abnormalities, lymphadenopathyUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): PancytopeniaFrequency not reported: Decreased absolute neutrophil count (ANC) to less than 0.
5 x 10(9)/L, hemoglobin less than 7 g/dL
Risk factors for drug-related seizures included underlying central nervous system conditions predisposing patients to seizures, impaired baseline renal function, and low total serum calcium.
The rate of seizures did not increase with duration of therapy.
At least 3 cases were reported with overdoses of this drug.
Very common (10% or more): Headache (up to 26%), paresthesia, dizzinessCommon (1% to 10%): Seizures/convulsion (including grand mal seizures), involuntary muscle contractions, hypoesthesia, neuropathy, tremor, ataxia, dementia, stupor, generalized spasms, sensory disturbances, meningitis, aphasia, abnormal coordination, leg cramps, electroencephalogram abnormalities, amnesia, somnolence, taste perversions, peripheral neuropathyUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Coma, other neurologic complicationsPostmarketing reports: Encephalopathy
Very common (10% or more): RashCommon (1% to 10%): Increased sweating, pruritus, skin ulceration, seborrhea, erythematous rash, maculopapular rash, skin discolorationFrequency not reported: Eosinophilic folliculitisPostmarketing reports: Vesiculobullous eruptions, erythema multiforme, toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome
When toxic epidermal necrolysis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome was reported, patients were usually taking other agents associated with those reactions.
Common (1% to 10%): Injection site pain, injection site inflammation
Common (1% to 10%): Hypertension, palpitations, ECG abnormalities, sinus tachycardia, first degree atrioventricular block, nonspecific ST-T segment changes, hypotension, flushing, cerebrovascular disorder, thrombophlebitisUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Cardiac arrest, other cardiovascular complicationsFrequency not reported: Reversible cardiac dysfunction, increased heart ratePostmarketing reports: Ventricular arrhythmia, QT interval prolongation
Reversible cardiac dysfunction was reported in a patient using this drug, who experienced shortness of breath, increased heart rate, and pulmonary edema, which reoccurred upon rechallenge.
Serum electrolytes were within normal limits.
Thrombophlebitis in peripheral veins has been reported after infusion of undiluted drug solution.
Common (1% to 10%): Abnormal hepatic function, increased ALT/SGPT, increased AST/SGOT, increased GGT
Common (1% to 10%): Back pain, arthralgia, myalgiaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Increased creatine phosphokinaseFrequency not reported: TwitchesPostmarketing reports: Muscle disorders including myopathy, myositis, muscle weakness, rhabdomyolysis
Common (1% to 10%): Lymphoma-like disorder, sarcoma
Common (1% to 10%): Coughing, dyspnea, pneumonia, sinusitis, pharyngitis, rhinitis, respiratory disorders, respiratory insufficiency, pulmonary infiltration, stridor, pneumothorax, hemoptysis, bronchospasmFrequency not reported: Pulmonary edema
Common (1% to 10%): Depression, confusion, anxiety, insomnia, nervousness, agitation, aggression, hallucinationPostmarketing reports: Mental status changes
Common (1% to 10%): Vision abnormalities, eye abnormalities, eye pain, conjunctivitis
High levels of this drug are excreted in the urine and may be associated with significant irritation and ulceration in the genital area, especially after prolonged therapy.
Penile ulcerations have been reported to occur after a median of 11 days of induction therapy and 30 days of maintenance therapy, and healed within 6 days of drug discontinuation.
Ulceration has been reported more often in uncircumcised patients.
Common (1% to 10%): Albuminuria, dysuria, polyuria, urethral disorder, urinary retention, urinary tract infections, nocturia, genital discomfort/irritation and ulcerationUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): HematuriaFrequency not reported: Local irritation/ulceration of penile epithelium, vulvovaginal ulceration, penile ulceration, vulvar erosion
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretionPostmarketing reports: Diabetes insipidus
Increased or decreased frequency of urination or amount of urine
increased thirst
Chills
convulsions
fever
muscle twitching
pain at place of injection
pain or numbness in hands or feet
tingling sensation around the mouth
tremor
unusual tiredness and weakness
Sores or ulcers on the mouth or throat, penis, or vulva
Abdominal or stomach pain
anxious feeling
confusion
dizziness
headache
loss of appetite
nausea and vomiting
unusual tiredness or weakness