In general, the most common side effects in patients receiving enfuvirtide (the active ingredient contained in Fuzeon) and a background regimen have included injection site reactions, diarrhea, nausea, and fatigue.
Local side effects have been reported in 98% of patients and have included pain/discomfort at the injection site (96%), induration (90%), erythema (91%), nodules and cysts (80%), pruritus (65%), ecchymosis (52%), injection site infection (including abscess and cellulitis, 1.
7%), minor local bleeding, injection site reactions, injection site mass, injection site inflammation, and injection site edema.
The administration of enfuvirtide (the active ingredient contained in Fuzeon) using the Biojector (R) 2000 needle-free device has been associated with hematomas, bruising, tenderness, and swelling.
At least one case of localized amyloidosis at the site of enfuvirtide injection has been reported.
Gastrointestinal side effects associated with enfuvirtide (the active ingredient contained in Fuzeon) and a background regimen have included diarrhea (31.
7%), nausea (22.
8%), abdominal pain (3.
9%), dry mouth (2.
1%), pancreatitis (3.
0%), abdominal distension, vomiting, flatulence, and oral candidiasis.
Constipation, increased amylase, and increased lipase have also been reported; however, causality has not been determined.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included hypersensitivity reactions in less than 1% of patients and in some cases have recurred upon rechallenge.
Signs and symptoms of reactions have included rash, fever, nausea, vomiting, chills, rigors, hypotension, elevated liver transaminases, primary immune complex reaction, respiratory distress, glomerulonephritis, and Guillain-Barre syndrome.
Worsening of abacavir hypersensitivity reaction has been reported; however, causality has not been established.
General allergic reaction (not defined as hypersensitivity reaction) has also been reported.
Metabolic side effects associated with enfuvirtide (the active ingredient contained in Fuzeon) in combination with a background regimen have included decreased weight (6.
6%), decreased appetite (3.
2%), anorexia (2.
3%), and hyperlipemia.
Increased triglycerides and hyperglycemia have also been reported; however, causality has not been established.
Nervous system side effects associated with enfuvirtide (the active ingredient contained in Fuzeon) and a background regimen have included peripheral neuropathy, taste disturbance, sixth nerve palsy and fatal Guillain-Barre syndrome have also been reported; however, causality has not been established.
Dizziness, headache, and epidural abscess have also been reported.
The administration of enfuvirtide using the Biojector (R) 2000 needle-free device has been associated with neuralgia and/or paresthesia (nerve pain) lasting up to 6 months when injected at sites where large nerves run close to the skin.
Other side effects associated with enfuvirtide (the active ingredient contained in Fuzeon) and a background regimen have included fatigue (20.
2%), herpes simplex (3.
5%), influenza-like illness (2.
4%), malaise, fever, and chills.
Asthenia and sepsis have also been reported; however, causality has not been determined.
Psychiatric side effects associated with enfuvirtide (the active ingredient contained in Fuzeon) and a background regimen have included insomnia, depression, anxiety, and suicide attempt; however, causality has not been established.
Abnormal thinking and agitation have also been reported.
Respiratory side effects associated with enfuvirtide (the active ingredient contained in Fuzeon) and a background regimen have included cough (3.
9%), sinusitis (6.
0%), bronchitis, nasopharyngitis, and upper respiratory tract infection.
Pneumonia (2.
7%), including fatalities, pneumopathy, and respiratory distress have also been reported; however, causality has not been determined.
Patients should be carefully monitored for symptoms of pneumonia.
Dermatologic side effects associated with enfuvirtide (the active ingredient contained in Fuzeon) and a background regimen have included folliculitis (2.
4%), dermatitis, pruritus, dry skin, skin papilloma, skin discoloration, and rash (not defined as hypersensitivity reaction).
Musculoskeletal side effects associated with enfuvirtide (the active ingredient contained in Fuzeon) and a background regimen have included myalgia (2.
7%), limb pain (2.
9%), and increased creatine phosphokinase (Grade 3, 6.
9%; Grade 4, 2.
6%).
Vertebral osteomyelitis has also been reported.
Ocular side effects associated with enfuvirtide (the active ingredient contained in Fuzeon) and a background regimen have included conjunctivitis (2.
0%).
Hematologic side effects associated with enfuvirtide (the active ingredient contained in Fuzeon) and a background regimen have included eosinophilia (1 to 2 times ULN, 9.
1%; greater than 2 times ULN, 1.
8%), leukopenia, and anemia.
Thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, and lymphadenopathy have also been reported; however, causality has not been established.
Renal side effects have included glomerulonephritis, tubular necrosis, renal insufficiency, and renal failure (including fatalities); however, causality has not been established.
Hepatic side effects associated with enfuvirtide (the active ingredient contained in Fuzeon) and a background regimen have included increased ALT (Grade 3, 4.
1%; Grade 4, 1.
2%).
Increased AST, increased GGT, toxic hepatitis, and hepatic steatosis have also been reported; however, causality has not been determined.
Cardiovascular side effects associated with enfuvirtide (the active ingredient contained in Fuzeon) and a background regimen have included unstable angina pectoris; however, causality has not been established.
Genitourinary side effects have included hematuria.
Immunologic side effects have included immune reconstitution syndrome, opportunistic infections, and general infectious diseases.
Autoimmune disorders (e.
g.
, Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barre syndrome) have been reported in the setting of immune reconstitution.
Awkwardness
burning, numbness, tingling, or painful sensations or weakness in arms, hands, legs, or feet
cough
headache
pain or tenderness around eyes and cheekbones
shortness of breath or troubled breathing
stuffy or runny nose
tightness of chest
unsteadiness
wheezing
Bloating
chills
constipation
darkened urine
dry or itching eyes
excessive tearing
eye discharge
fast heartbeat
fever
indigestion
itching, pain, redness, swelling, tenderness, or warmth on skin at injection site
loss of appetite
lump or growth on skin
nausea
pains in stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
redness, pain, swelling of eye, eyelid, or inner lining of eyelid
vomiting
yellow eyes or skin
Difficulty in breathing or swallowing
fast heartbeat
skin itching, rash, or redness
swelling of face, throat, or tongue
Black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in urine or stools
bloody urine
chest pain
decreased frequency or amount of urine
inability to move arms and legs
increased blood pressure
increased thirst
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on skin 
sneezing
sore throat
sudden numbness and weakness in the arms and legs
swelling of face, fingers, lower legs; weight gain
ulcers, sores, or white spots in mouth
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Abnormal growth filled with fluid or semisolid material
bruising
burning or stinging of skin
decreased appetite
diarrhea
discouragement
dry mouth
fear
feeling sad or empty
flushing
hard lump
irritability
itching skin
lack of appetite
lack or loss of strength
large, flat, blue or purplish patches in the skin
muscle pain
nervousness
painful cold sores or blisters on lips, nose, eyes, or genitals
redness of skin
small lumps under the skin
tiredness
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
unusually warm skin
weight loss
Bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
burning, itching, and pain in hairy areas
change in taste
diarrhea
general feeling of discomfort or illness
joint pain
pus at root of hair
stomach pain
swollen, painful, or tender lymph glands in neck, armpit, or groin