If any of the following side effects occur while taking gadoteridol, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Cardiovascular side effects have included prolonged P-R Interval, hypotension, elevated heart rate, A-V nodal rhythm, cardiac arrest, bradycardia, hypertension, and death in association with pre-existing cardiovascular disorders.
Respiratory side effects have included dyspnea, rhinitis, cough, apnea, and wheezing.
Other side effects have included voice alteration; transitory deafness and tinnitus.
Nervous system side effects have included headache, anxiety, dizziness, paresthesia, mental status decline, loss of coordination in arm, staring episodes, seizure, syncope, stupor, tremor, tingling sensation in extremities and digits, and loss of consciousness.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included anaphylactoid reactions rarely resulting in death.
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus, rash, macular papular rash, urticaria, hives, itching, sweating, and cyanosis.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included edematous and/or itching tongue, gingivitis dry mouth, loose bowel, vomiting, abdominal cramps, increased salivation, and dysphagia.
General side effects have included facial edema, neck rigidity, pain, chest pain, fever, tingling sensation in throat, laryngismus, flushed feeling, vasovagal reaction, and generalized edema.
Genitourinary side effects have included urinary incontinence.
Local side effects have included pain at injection site and injection site reaction.
Ocular side effects have included watery eyes.
Bluish color of the fingernails, lips, skin, palms, or nail beds
blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chest pain or discomfort
confusion
cough
decreased awareness or responsiveness
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty swallowing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fainting
feeling of warmth
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
hives
hoarseness
increased salivation
itching
loss of bladder control
loss of consciousness
low blood pressure or pulse
nervousness
pounding in the ears
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
seizures
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
skin rash
slow, fast,  or irregular breathing
spasm of the throat
sweating
tightness in the chest
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
unconsciousness
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
nausea
Abdominal or stomach cramps
anxiety
bleeding gums
bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
diarrhea
dry mouth
hearing loss
irritation in the mouth
loss of coordination in the arms
mouth ulcers
rash with flat lesions or small raised lesions on the skin
redness and swelling of the gums
runny nose
sneezing
stuffy nose
tingling sensation in the throat
voice changes
vomiting
watery eyes