If any of the following side effects occur while taking gentamicin, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
The most frequently reported adverse effects associated with gentamicin (the active ingredient contained in Garamycin) therapy are ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity.
These forms of toxicity occur more frequently in patients who experience prolonged exposure to serum gentamicin trough concentrations of greater than  mcg/mL.
Patients with renal insufficiency are at an increased risk of developing toxicity.
Acute renal failure due to gentamicin (the active ingredient contained in Garamycin) is usually nonoliguric with an average rise in serum creatinine of  to  mg/dL.
Renal function generally returns to baseline in  to  days.
Rarely, gentamicin produces renal tubular acidosis and renal potassium and magnesium wasting.
There is no relationship between acute renal failure and the daily dose of gentamicin, however, an increased incidence has been associated with a serum trough gentamicin concentration greater than  mcg/mL.
It has been suggested that there is a correlation between the higher peak concentrations associated with once-daily dosing and a higher incidence of nephrotoxicity.
Other predisposing factors include advanced age, preexisting renal insufficiency, dehydration, and concomitant use of other potentially nephrotoxic drugs.
Renal side effects associated with gentamicin use have included nephrotoxicity.
The overall incidence of aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity is  to .
Gentamicin nephrotoxicity occurs in two forms: acute renal failure (ARF), and a more gradual, transient, and reversible azotemia.
Fanconi syndrome and Bartter-like syndrome have been reported.
The onset of ototoxicity may be asymptomatic or may manifest as dizziness, vertigo, ataxia, tinnitus, and roaring in the ears.
High tone hearing loss is often an early symptom of auditory toxicity.
It has been suggested that once-daily dosing of gentamicin (the active ingredient contained in Garamycin) is associated with a higher incidence of ototoxicity.
Other side effects possibly related to gentamicin have included lethargy, confusion, depression, headache, pseudotumor cerebri, and acute organic brain syndrome.
Nervous system side effects have included ototoxicity, which generally presents as loss of vestibular function secondary to hair cell damage, but may also be auditory.
Ototoxicity is closely related to the development of renal impairment, and may be irreversible.
Peripheral neuropathy or encephalopathy with numbness, skin tingling, muscle twitching, seizures, and myasthenia gravis-like syndrome have also been reported.
Intraventricular and intrathecal administration of gentamicin has rarely been associated with aseptic meningitis, transient hearing loss, and seizures.
Neuromuscular side effects including ataxia, paresis and incontinence have been reported after large intrathecal doses ( mg to  mg) of preservative-containing gentamicin.
Concurrent administration of parenteral and intrathecal gentamicin has been associated with eighth nerve dysfunction, fever, convulsions, leg cramps, and increases in cerebrospinal fluid protein.
Musculoskeletal side effects have rarely included neuromuscular blockade, which occurs most commonly in patients who are predisposed including patients with myasthenia gravis, hypocalcemia, and those receiving a concomitant neuromuscular blocking agent.
Tetany and muscle weakness may be associated with gentamicin-induced hypomagnesemia, hypocalcemia, and hypokalemia.
Joint pain has also been reported.
Respiratory side effects have included case reports of respiratory depression and respiratory arrest.
Gentamicin (the active ingredient contained in Garamycin) has also been possibly associated with pulmonary fibrosis.
Hypersensitivity reactions possibly associated with gentamicin (the active ingredient contained in Garamycin) have included anaphylactoid reactions and laryngeal edema.
Suspected allergic reactions against gentamicin with sodium metabisulfite preservative have been reported.
Local reactions have occasionally included pain at the injection site, and rarely subcutaneous atrophy or fat necrosis at the injection site.
Reactions associated with intrathecal injections have included arachnoiditis and burning at the injection site.
Dermatologic side effects possibly associated with gentamicin (the active ingredient contained in Garamycin) have included rash, itching, urticaria, generalized burning, and alopecia.
Hematologic side effects possibly related to gentamicin (the active ingredient contained in Garamycin) use have included anemia, leukopenia, granulocytopenia, transient agranulocytosis, eosinophilia, increased and decreased reticulocyte counts, thrombocytopenia, immunologic thrombocytopenia, and purpura.
Hepatic side effects possibly related to gentamicin (the active ingredient contained in Garamycin) use have included transient hepatomegaly, and increases in serum transaminase, serum LDH, and bilirubin.
Cardiovascular side effects possibly related to gentamicin (the active ingredient contained in Garamycin) have included hypotension and hypertension.
Gastrointestinal side effects possibly related to gentamicin (the active ingredient contained in Garamycin) have included nausea, vomiting, weight loss, decreased appetite, increased salivation, and stomatitis.
Ocular side effects have included case reports of retinal ischemia resulting in loss of visual acuity after inadvertent intraocular injection of massive doses of gentamicin (the active ingredient contained in Garamycin) 
Other side effects possibly related to gentamicin (the active ingredient contained in Garamycin) have included transient splenomegaly and fever.
Pyrogenic reactions with symptoms of shaking, chills, fever, rigors, tachycardia, and/or hypotension have been reported with intravenous gentamicin.
These reactions generally occurred within  hours of administration and were believed to be due to once-daily gentamicin doses delivering sufficient endotoxin over one hour to be pyrogenic.
Abdominal or stomach cramps or pain
agitation
back pain
black, tarry stools
blood in the urine
blurred or double vision
burning, numbness, tingling, or painful sensations
change in frequency of urination or amount of urine
chest pain
chills
coma
confusion
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
cough
difficult or troubled breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
drowsiness
dry mouth
eye pain
fast heartbeat
fever with or without chills
hallucinations
headache
hearing loss
hives
hoarseness
increased thirst
irregular heartbeats
irregular, fast or slow, or shallow breathing
irritability
itching
joint pain
loss of appetite
mood or mental changes
muscle cramps in the hands, arms, feet, legs, or face
muscle pain or weakness
muscle spasms (tetany) or twitching
nausea or vomiting
nervousness
numbness and tingling around the mouth, fingertips, or feet
pale or blue lips, fingernails, or skin
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
right upper abdominal or stomach pain and fullness
seizures
sensation of spinning
skin rash
slow or fast heartbeat
slow or irregular breathing
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stiff neck
sweating
swelling of the feet or lower legs
swollen glands
tightness in the chest
trembling
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
weight chest discomfort
weight loss
wheezing
Blurred or loss of vision
decreased appetite
depression
disturbed color perception
hair loss or thinning of the hair
halos around lights
hives or welts
increased salivation
night blindness
overbright appearance of lights
pain at the injection site
purple spots on the skin
redness of the skin
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
tunnel vision
unusual drowsiness, dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness