More frequent side effects include: signs and symptoms of injection site.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Very common ( or more): Anemia , neutropenia , leucopenia , thrombocytopenia , petechiae , hemorrhage , bone marrow suppression (usually mild to moderate)Common ( to ): Febrile neutropeniaVery rare (less than ): ThrombocytosisPostmarketing reports: Capillary leak syndrome (CLS)
Myelosuppression is the major dose-limiting factor associated with gemcitabine therapy.
Dosage adjustments for hematologic toxicity are frequently necessary.
Less than  of patients have had to discontinue therapy for either anemia, leukopenia, or thrombocytopenia.
Grade / thrombocytopenia was more common in the elderly, especially older women.
The risk for thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura increases as the cumulative dose of gemcitabine approaches , mg/m
Very common ( or more): Nausea/vomiting , diarrhea , stomatitis , stomatitis and ulceration of the mouth Common ( to ): ConstipationVery rare (less than ): Ischemic colitis, anal pruritus
If the patient is not vomiting due to their disease state, nausea can generally be prevented by administration of prochlorperazine or low-dose oral serotonin antagonists and glucocorticoid therapy.
One study of  patients found the rate of WHO grade  nausea and vomiting at a frequency of  in patients under  years of age, and  in patients  years of age or older.
No evidence of increased hepatic toxicity has been reported with longer duration or greater total cumulative dose.
Very common ( or more): Increased ALT , increased AST , increased alkaline phosphatase , hyperbilirubinemia Common ( to ): Uncommon ( to ): Serious hepatotoxicity (including liver failure and death), increased gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT)Postmarketing reports: Hepatic veno-occlusive disease
Renal failure may not be reversible, even upon discontinuation of therapy.
Very common ( or more): Proteinuria , hematuria , increased BUN Common ( to ): Increased creatinine Uncommon ( to ): Renal failure, hemolytic-uremic syndrome
The flu-like symptoms usually take place a few hours after drug administration.
The symptoms are usually self-limiting and recovery is generally within  to  hours.
Less than  of patients discontinued use due to flu-like symptoms.
Some patients get relief from nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or acetaminophen.
Out of the five reported cases of distal ischemic changes, four of those case related to combination chemotherapy with cisplatin and gemcitabine (the active ingredient contained in Gemzar)  while one case was of gemcitabine as a single agent in first-line therapy.
Very common ( or more): Fever , asthenia, chillsCommon ( to ): Paresthesia Rare (less than ): Radiation toxicity, radiation recallFrequency not reported: Cough, chills, pattern of tissue injury typically associated with radiation toxicity
Rash was generally a macular or finely granular maculopapular pruritic eruption, mild to moderate in severity, involving the trunk and extremities.
Alopecia is usually minimal.
Very common ( or more): Allergic skin rash frequently associated with pruritus , alopecia Common ( to ): Itching, sweatingRare ( to ): Severe skin reactions (including desquamation and bullous skin eruptions), ulceration, vesicle and sore formation, scalingVery rare (less than ): Lyell's syndrome (toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens Johnson SyndromePostmarketing reports: Cellulitis
Very common ( or more): Dyspnea Common ( to ): Cough, rhinitisUncommon ( to ): Interstitial pneumonitis, bronchospasmRare ( to ): Pulmonary edema, adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)Very rare (less than ): Respiratory failure/deathFrequency not reported: Pulmonary fibrosis, pulmonary edema
Some of the dyspnea reported may have been due to underlying disease.
Forty percent of the study population consisted of lung cancer patients, while some of the other study patients had pulmonary manifestations of other malignancies.
Different patterns of lung injury may be related to gemcitabine.
A rapid response following the administration of corticosteroids would mean the respiratory problem was probably due to a hypersensitivity reaction.
Common ( to ): Headache, insomnia, somnolence, paraesthesiaUncommon ( to ): Cerebrovascular accidentPostmarketing reports: Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES)
Less than  of the paresthesias have been severe.
Very common ( or more): Injection site reactions (mainly mild)
Rare (less than ): Hypersensibility
Many of the patients that suffered cardiovascular effects had a prior history of cardiovascular disease.
Two percent of patients discontinued therapy due to these effects.
Less than  of patients discontinued due to edema.
Uncommon ( to ): Arrhythmias (predominantly supraventricular), heart failureRare (less than ): Hypotension, hypertension, myocardial infarction, atrial fibrillationVery rare (less than ): Congestive heart failurePostmarketing reports: Supraventricular arrhythmias
Very common ( or more): Infection , influenza-like symptomsRare (less than ): Anaphylactoid reactionFrequency not reported: Scleroderma-like reaction
Very common ( or more): Edema/peripheral edema-including facial edema (usually reversible after stopping treatment)Common ( to ): Anorexia
Common ( to ): Back pain, myalgia
Bleeding gums
blood in urine or stools
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chest pain
cloudy urine
coughing up blood
cough or hoarseness
diarrhea
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty in moving
difficulty in swallowing
dizziness
fever or chills
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
increased menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding
joint pain
lack or loss of strength
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pains or stiffness
nausea
nosebleeds
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
paralysis
pinpoint red spots on skin
prolonged bleeding from cuts
red or black, tarry stools
red or dark brown urine
runny nose
shivering
shortness of breath
sores, ulcers, or white spots on lips or in mouth
sore throat
sweating
swelling of hands, ankles, feet, or lower legs
swollen glands
swollen joints
tightness in chest
troubled breathing with exertion
trouble sleeping
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
weight loss
wheezing
Blurred vision
chest discomfort
fainting
fast, slow, or irregular heartbeat
headache (sudden and severe)
inability to speak
nervousness
noisy breathing
pain or discomfort in arms, jaw, back or neck
pounding in the ears
seizures
slurred speech
temporary blindness
weakness in arm and/or leg on one side of the body (sudden and severe)
Confusion
lightheadedness
rapid, shallow breathing
Hives
itching
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips or tongue
skin rash
Difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
hair loss
pain
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
thinning of hair
Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at site