During clinical trials, the most common side effects reported with the capsule formulation were headache, abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, respiratory infection, and arthralgia.
Some side effects (including abdominal pain, fatigue, and nausea) were reported more often in women than in men.
Abdominal pain, rectal bleeding, and anemia can be part of the clinical presentation of ulcerative colitis.
During a clinical trial, the most common side effects reported in male patients taking the tablet formulation were headache, nasopharyngitis, anemia, diarrhea fatigue, pharyngolaryngeal pain, and urinary tract infection.
Most side effects were mild to moderate in severity.
The most common serious side effects were gastrointestinal disorders, which were primarily associated with symptoms of ulcerative colitis.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included abdominal pain (up to 6%), diarrhea (up to 5%), nausea (5%), vomiting (up to 4%), dyspepsia (2%), flatulence (up to 2%), anorexia (2%), dry mouth (up to 1%), constipation (up to 1%), defecation urgency (less than 1%), hard feces (less than 1%), gastroesophageal reflux disease (less than 1%), and gastroenteritis (less than 1%).
Pancreatitis has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgia (up to 4%), musculoskeletal pain (2.
4%), myalgia (up to 1%), and back pain (less than 1%).
Respiratory side effects have included nasopharyngitis, respiratory infection (4%), pharyngolaryngeal pain (3.
7%), coughing (2%), pharyngitis (2%), rhinitis (2%), dyspnea (less than 1%), and upper respiratory infection (less than 1%).
Pleural effusion, pneumonia (with and without eosinophilia), and alveolitis have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Nervous system side effects have included headache (8%), insomnia (up to 2.
4%), lethargy (less than 1%), and dizziness (less than 1%).
Hepatic side effects have included elevated aspartate aminotransferase (less than 1%).
Hepatotoxicity, including elevated liver function tests (SGOT/AST, SGPT/ALT, GGT, LDH, alkaline phosphatase, bilirubin), jaundice, cholestatic jaundice, cirrhosis, hepatocellular damage (including liver necrosis and liver failure), and Kawasaki-like syndrome (including hepatic function changes) have been reported during postmarketing experience of products that contain (or are metabolized to) mesalamine; some cases were fatal.
Hematologic side effects have included anemia (3.
7%), thrombocythemia, and prothrombin changes.
A higher incidence of blood dyscrasias (i.
e.
, neutropenia and pancytopenia) has been reported during uncontrolled clinical trials and postmarketing experience in patients 65 years or older receiving mesalamine-containing products.
Cardiovascular side effects have included increased blood pressure (less than 1%), increased heart rate (less than 1%), hypertension, palpitations, and bradycardia.
Myocarditis, pericarditis, and vasculitis have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Renal side effects have included renal failure and interstitial nephritis during postmarketing experience.
Other side effects have included fatigue (up to 2%), fever (2%), cramps (1%), influenza-like disorder (1%), pyrexia (less than 1%), face edema (less than 1%), malaise (less than 1%), pain (less than 1%), and swelling (less than 1%).
Genitourinary side effects have included urinary tract infection (up to 3.
7%).
Dermatologic side effects have included erythema nodosum (less than 1%) and rash (less than 1%).
Pruritus and alopecia have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Bloody diarrhea
fever
skin rash
Bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
bloody stools
difficult, burning, or painful urination
frequent urge to urinate
heavy bleeding
lower back or side pain
Difficult or labored breathing
shortness of breath
tightness in the chest
wheezing
Abdominal or stomach pain or tenderness
chills
clay colored stools
dark urine
decreased appetite
decreased frequency or amount of urine
dizziness
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
headache
increased blood pressure
increased thirst
itching
joint pain
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
nausea and vomiting
stomach pain, continuing
swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or lower legs
unpleasant breath odor
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood
weight gain
yellow eyes or skin
Diarrhea
mild headache
muscle aches
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
Acid or sour stomach
belching
bloated or full feeling
body aches or pain
bone pain
congestion
constipation
coughing
cramps
difficulty with moving
dry mouth
dryness of the throat
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
general feeling of discomfort or illness
heartburn
hoarseness
indigestion
muscle pain or stiffness
pale skin
passing of gas
shivering
sleeplessness
sneezing
stomach discomfort or upset
sweating
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
swollen joints
tender, swollen glands in the neck
trouble with sleeping
trouble with swallowing
troubled breathing with exertion
unable to sleep
unusual bleeding or bruising
voice changes
weight loss
Back pain
ear congestion
loss of appetite
loss of voice
pain in the ankles or knees
painful, red lumps under the skin, mostly on the legs
unusual drowsiness, dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness
Hair loss or thinning of the hair