Most of the patients with respiratory toxicity received prolonged therapy with total doses greater than  mg/m, although respiratory problems have been reported in patients receiving as little as  mg/mDelayed onset pulmonary fibrosis occurring up to  years after treatment has been reported in one long-term study (n=) on patients who received carmustine (the active ingredient contained in Gliadel) in childhood and early adolescence combined with cranial radiotherapy (for intracranial tumors).
Chest X-rays revealed pulmonary hypoplasia with upper zone contraction.
Thoracic CT scans showed an unusual pattern of upper zone fibrosis.
Some late reduction of pulmonary function was reported in all long-term survivors.
In this long-term study,  of  died of delayed pulmonary lung fibrosis, including all those initially treated ( of ) at less than  years old.
Respiratory side effects including pulmonary infiltrates and/or fibrosis have been reported to occur from  days to  months after treatment with carmustine and related nitrosoureas.
Cases of fatal respiratory toxicity have been reported.
Carmustine may produce cumulative myelosuppression.
Thrombocytopenia has generally been reported to occur approximately four weeks after administration.
Leukopenia has generally been reported to occur approximately five to six weeks after administration.
Both have been reported to persist for one to two weeks.
Use of carmustine (the active ingredient contained in Gliadel) in combination with cimetidine has resulted in greater myelotoxicity (, leucopenia, neutropenia).
Hematologic side effects including myelosuppression have been reported frequently.
Thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, and less frequently, anemia have also been reported.
Acute leukemia and bone marrow dysplasias have been reported following long-term nitrosourea therapy.
Nausea and vomiting generally appear within two hours of dosing and last for four to six hours.
Prior administration of antiemetics has been effective in diminishing and sometimes preventing these side effects.
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea and vomiting have been reported frequently.
Hepatic side effects including increased transaminase, alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin levels have been reported infrequently.
The increased levels are generally reversible.
Renal side effects including progressive azotemia, decrease in kidney size, and renal failure have been reported in patients after prolonged therapy and usually after large cumulative doses.
Cardiovascular side effects including hypotension and tachycardia have been reported.
Three cases of myocardial ischemia during and immediately after high-dose carmustine (the active ingredient contained in Gliadel) infusion have been reported.
Local side effects including burning and hyperpigmentation have been reported.
This effect usually has been reported to occur within two hours and last for approximately four hours.
Other side effects have included intensive flushing of the skin and suffusion of the conjunctiva following rapid intravenous infusion of carmustine.
Ocular side effects including neuroretinitis have been reported.
General side effects including chest pain and headache have been reported.
Oncologic side effects have included spontaneous reports of cyst formation after gliadel wafer implantation.
Carcinogenicity has been reported in animal studies.
Cyst formation occurred at varying time intervals postimplantation.
Cyst formation has also been reported in patients following resection of malignant glioma who have not had gliadel implanted.
Carmustine has been reported in animal studies to produce a marked increase in tumor incidence at doses approximating clinical doses.
intravenous powder for solution
Blurred vision
change in ability to see colors, especially blue or yellow
confusion
fever
headache
nausea and vomiting
problems with movement, walking, or speech
seizures
trouble healing
Drowsiness
general feeling of illness
severe headache
stiff neck or back
Abdominal or stomach pain
back pain
bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
difficult, burning, or painful urination
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
discouragement
feeling sad or empty
frequent urge to urinate
irritability
lack of appetite
lack or loss of strength
loss of interest or pleasure
lower back or side pain
tiredness
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
Chest pain