Cardiovascular side effects have included chest pain  and vascular disorder .
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea ( to ), vomiting ( to ), abdominal pain ( to ), tenesmus ( to ), flatulence ( to ), hemorrhoids ( to ), dry mouth ( to ), pancreatitis ( to ), constipation , aggravated Crohn's disease , gastric ulcer , and gastrointestinal fistula .
Musculoskeletal side effects have included back pain ( to ), arthralgia ( to ), and myalgia ( to ).
Respiratory side effects have included rhinitis ( to ), laryngitis , and pharyngitis .
Psychiatric side effects have included depression ( to ).
Other side effects have included peripheral edema ( to ), facial edema ( to ), generalized edema , enlarged abdomen , pain ( to ), vascular disorder , female breast pain ( to ), vaginal fungal infection , increased sweating  and ear or hearing symptoms .
Immunologic side effects have included fever ( to ), chills , malaise , flu-like disorder ( to ), viral or bacterial infection ( to ), sepsis ( to ), and moniliasis .
Metabolic side effects have included dehydration ( to ), and thirst .
Dermatologic side effects have included rash ( to ) and skin and appendage disorders ( to ).
Local side effects have included injection site pain and/or injection site reaction ( to ).
Central nervous system side effects have included dizziness ( to ), hypoesthesia ( to ), insomnia  and headache ( to ).
Genitourinary side effects have included pyelonephritis  and renal calculus .
Hepatic side effects have included abnormal hepatic function .
Blood in urine
changes in skin color 
chills
cold hands and feet
confusion
cough
difficulty swallowing
dizziness
fainting 
fast heartbeat
fever
frequent and painful urination 
headache
hives
itching
lightheadedness
lower back or side pain
pain, redness, or swelling in arm or leg
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips or tongue
rapid, shallow breathing
shortness of breath
skin rash
stomach pain
sudden decrease in amount of urine
tightness in chest
unusual tiredness or weakness 
wheezing
Cough or hoarseness
frequent urge to defecate
straining while passing stool
Abnormal or decreased touch sensation
back pain
bacterial infection
bleeding after defecation
bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at site
bloated full feeling
body aches or pain
breast pain, female
chest pain
change in the color, amount, or odor of vaginal discharge
congestion
constipation
Crohn's disease, aggravated
dark urine
decreased urination
diarrhea
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
difficulty in moving
discoloration of fingernails or toenails
discouragement
dry mouth
dryness or soreness of throat
ear or hearing symptoms 
excess air or gas in stomach or intestines
feeling sad or empty
feeling unusually cold shivering
flatulence
full or bloated feeling
general feeling of discomfort or illness
increase in heart rate
indigestion
irritability
joint pain;
lack of appetite
light-colored stools
loss of appetite 
loss of interest or pleasure
muscle aches and pains
muscle pain or stiffness 
nausea
pain in joints 
pain or burning while urinating
pains in stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
passing gas
pressure in the stomach 
rash
rectal bleeding 
runny nose
shivering 
sleeplessness
sneezing 
sore throat
stomach bloating, burning, cramping, or pain
stuffy nose
sunken eyes
sweating
swelling of abdominal or stomach area
swelling of face
swelling of hands, ankles, feet, or lower legs
swollen joints
tender, swollen glands in neck;
thirst
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping 
trouble in swallowing
unable to sleep
uncomfortable swelling around anus 
unpleasant breath odor
unusual tiredness or weakness
voice changes
vomiting
vomiting of blood
weight loss
wrinkled skin
yellow eyes or skin