Commonly reported side effects of goserelin include: headache, vasodilatation, and diaphoresis.
Other side effects include: hypertension.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking goserelin, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
In general, hot flashes (in males (M)  to  and in females (F)  to ) have been the most frequently reported side effect.
Headache (F  to  and M ), tumor flare (F ), flu syndrome, malaise, fatigue and lethargy (all F ) have been reported.
Pain (F  and M  to ) has been reported including; breast pain (F ), abdominal pain (F ), back pain (F ) and pelvic bone pain (M ).
Some clinicians have used the addition of the oral progestational agent megestrol acetate to reduce the hot flashes.
A dose of megestrol acetate  mg two times a day may be appropriate.
Tumor flare may also occur in males if antiandrogens are not administered.
Genitourinary side effects in female patients have included vaginitis , libido decrease  or increase , vaginal dryness , breast atrophy  or enlargement , pelvic symptoms  and dyspareunia .
In male patients, sexual dysfunction , decreased erections , lower urinary tract symptoms  and gynecomastia  have been reported.
Renal insufficiency, urinary obstruction, urinary tract infection, bladder neoplasm, hematuria, impotence, urinary frequency, urinary incontinence, urinary tract disorder and impaired urination have also been reported to occur in  to  of patients.
Breast tenderness, breast pain, ovarian cyst formation, and ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome, and prolonged hypogonadism have also been reported.
During the first two months of therapy, some women have reported vaginal bleeding.
This bleeding may have been due to estrogen withdrawal.
Psychiatric side effects including emotional lability (F  to ) and depression (F  to ) have been reported.
Anxiety and abnormal thinking have also been reported.
Postmarketing psychiatric side effects including psychotic disorders and mood swings have been reported.
Dermatologic side effects including sweating (F  to  and M  to ), acne (F ), seborrhea (F ), hirsutism (F ), rash (M  to ), hair disorders (F ) and pruritus (F ) have been reported.
Alopecia, dry skin, skin discoloration and herpes simplex have also been reported.
Postmarketing dermatologic side effects including acne have been reported.
Cardiovascular side effects including edema (F  and M  to ), chest pain (M ) and congestive heart failure (M ) have been reported.
Cerebrovascular accident, arrhythmia, hypertension, myocardial infarction, peripheral vascular disorder, angina pectoris, cerebral ischemia, heart failure, pulmonary embolus and varicose veins have been reported to occur in  to  of patients.
Hemorrhage, migraine, palpitations and tachycardia have also been reported.
Myocardial infarction, sudden cardiac death, and stroke have been reported in patients treated with GnRH agonists.
Nervous system side effects including lethargy (M  to ), dizziness (F  and M  to ), paresthesia (M ), asthenia (F ), insomnia (F  to  and M ) and nervousness (F ) have been reported.
Anxiety and urinary retention have been reported to occur in  to  of patients.
Somnolence has also been reported.
As a result of increased prostate tumor growth caused by initial testosterone level elevation, a case of spinal cord compression resulting in paraplegia has been reported.
Postmarketing nervous system side effects including convulsions have been reported.
Gastrointestinal side effects including constipation (M ), nausea (F  to  and M ), anorexia (M ), vomiting (F ) and increased appetite  have been reported.
Diarrhea and hematemesis have been reported to occur in  to  of patients.
Ulcer, dyspepsia, dry mouth and flatulence have also been reported.
Respiratory side effects including pharyngitis (F ) and voice alterations (F ) have been reported.
Hypersensitivity reactions, both at the injection site (F ) and to the whole body have been reported.
Musculoskeletal side effects including an average  decrease in vertebral trabecular bone mineral density (BMD) after six months of therapy (n= F patients), when compared to their pretreatment values.
Myalgia (F ), leg cramps (F ) and hypertonia (F ) have been reported.
Arthralgia and joint disorders have also been reported.
Data suggest the decrease in BMD is partially reversible upon discontinuation of therapy.
Metabolic side effects including gout, hyperglycemia, weight increase, and diabetes mellitus have been reported to occur in  to  of patients.
Hematologic side effects including ecchymosis and sepsis have been reported to occur in  to  of patients.
Ocular side effects including amblyopia and dry eyes have been reported.
Endocrine side effects including very rare cases of pituitary apoplexy have been reported.
Reduction in glucose tolerance, manifesting as diabetes or loss of glycemic control in those with preexisting diabetes, has also been reported during treatment with GnRH agonists, including goserelin.
Pituitary apoplexy is a clinical syndrome secondary to infarction of the pituitary gland.
In a majority of the cases of pituitary apoplexy, a pituitary adenoma was diagnosed.
Most of the pituitary apoplexy cases occurred within two weeks of the first dose, and some occurred within the first hour.
In these cases, pituitary apoplexy has presented as sudden headache, vomiting, visual changes, ophthalmoplegia, altered mental status, and sometimes cardiovascular collapse.
Immediate medical attention has been required.
Oncologic side effects including very rare cases of pituitary tumors have been reported.
Fast or irregular heartbeat
Bone, muscle, or joint pain
changes in skin color of the face
fainting
fast or irregular breathing
numbness or tingling of the hands or feet
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes
skin rash, hives, or itching
sudden, severe decrease in blood pressure and collapse
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing
Anxiety
deepening of voice
increased hair growth
mental depression
mood changes
Pain in the chest
pain in the groin or legs (especially in the calves of the legs)
Sudden sweating and feelings of warmth (also called hot flashes)
Blurred vision
burning, itching, redness, or swelling at the place of injection
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
dizziness
headache
nausea or vomiting
swelling and increased tenderness of the breasts
swelling of the feet or lower legs
trouble sleeping
weight gain
Light, irregular vaginal bleeding
stopping of menstrual periods
Burning, dryness, or itching of the vagina
pelvic pain
Bone pain
constipation
decreased size of the testicles
inability to have or keep an erection