If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking guanadrel, get emergency help immediately:
If any of the following side effects occur while taking guanadrel, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
The most common problems associated with guanadrel affect the nervous system.
Up to  of patients have experienced drowsiness, fatigue, or headaches,  of patients experienced paresthesias or visual disturbances, and  experienced sleep disorders during therapy
Cardiovascular side effects can result from excessive sympathetic blockade or a relative increase in parasympathetic tone.
Orthostatic hypotension occurs in  to  of patients, some of whom experience syncope.
Unopposed or excessive parasympathetic tone can cause excessive bradycardia in rare cases.
This may cause serious problems in patients with underlying sinus node dysfunction.
Peripheral edema has been reported in up to  of patients.
Other cardiovascular problems include chest pain in , dyspnea at rest in , dyspnea on exertion in , and palpitations in  of patients.
Underlying diseases may account for the relatively high incidence of some of these side effects.
The risk of orthostatic hypotension, sometimes followed by syncope, is greatest within the first  minutes after dosing or early in the morning, and in hypovolemia.
It is accentuated by alcohol, hot weather, or exercise--all of which are associated with peripheral vasodilation.
The manufacturer recommends that guanadrel be gradually withdrawn over at least two weeks prior to administration of general anesthetics to avoid cardiovascular collapse during induction.
Gastrointestinal side effects are also related to increased parasympathetic tone.
Diarrhea has been reported in  to  of patients, some of whom discontinue therapy because of it.
Constipation has been reported in up to  of patients.
Dry mouth or parotid tenderness have been associated with the use of this drug in approximately  of patients.
There is evidence that peripherally-acting antiadrenergic drugs may interfere with ejaculation by inhibiting contraction of the seminal vesicle, ampula and ductus deferens.
Sexual impotence is a relatively common genitourinary complaint, occurring in  to  of male patients.
Smaller studies, where specific questions were asked, revealed an incidence of impotence as high as  of male patients who were receiving a similar drug, guanethidine.
Impotence appears to be reversible upon discontinuation of therapy or reduction in dosage.
Urinary frequency or urgency has occurred in  to  of patients.
Musculoskeletal cramping has occurred in approximately  to  of patients.
Blurred vision
dizziness or faintness (severe)
Swelling of feet or lower legs
Chest pain
shortness of breath
Difficulty in ejaculating
dizziness, lightheadedness, or fainting, especially when getting up from a lying or sitting position
drowsiness
unusual tiredness or weakness
weight gain or loss (excessive) 
Diarrhea or increase in bowel movements
dryness of mouth
headache
muscle pain or tremors
nighttime urination