The most common side effects reported with this drug were fatigue and headache.
When this drug was studied with ribavirin, the most common side effects to this combination were consistent with known ribavirin side effects; frequency and severity of the expected side effects were not increased.
Therapy was permanently discontinued due to side effects in , less than , and  of patients using this drug for , , and  weeks, respectively, and less than , , and  for patients using this drug with ribavirin for , , and  weeks, respectively.
The manufacturer product information for ribavirin should be consulted, if applicable.
Very common ( or more): Fatigue (up to )
Very common ( or more): Headache (up to )
Common ( to ): Nausea, diarrhea, increased lipase
Increased lipase (greater than  times the upper limit of normal [ x ULN]) was reported in less than , , and  of subjects using this drug for , , and  weeks, respectively.
Lipase elevation was transient and asymptomatic.
Common ( to ): Insomnia
Increased bilirubin (greater than  x ULN) was reported in , less than , and  of subjects using this drug for , , and  weeks, respectively.
Common ( to ): Increased bilirubin
Postmarketing reports: Serious symptomatic bradycardia (including fatal cardiac arrest, cases requiring pacemaker intervention)
Serious symptomatic bradycardia has been reported in patients taking amiodarone who started therapy with this drug.
Frequency not reported: Increased creatine kinase
Creatine kinase was not evaluated in clinical trials for this drug.
Isolated, asymptomatic creatine kinase elevations (grade  or ) were reported with sofosbuvir in combination with ribavirin or peginterferon alfa/ribavirin in other clinical trials.
Chest pain or discomfort
lightheadedness, dizziness, or fainting
shortness of breath
slow or irregular heartbeat
unusual tiredness
Cough
diarrhea
headache
irritability
lack or loss of strength
muscle pain
nausea
trouble breathing
trouble sleeping
unusual tiredness or weakness
Discouragement
dizziness
feeling sad or empty
lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
trouble concentrating