In patients with chronic hepatitis B, the incidence of side effects increased slightly with increased duration of treatment.
Other side effects have included asthenia (13%), abdominal pain (9%), fever (greater than or equal to 2%), weight loss, influenza-like syndrome, infection, back pain, pain, and accidental injury.
Renal side effects have included hematuria (greater than or equal to 3+, 11% ), increases in serum creatinine (greater than or equal to 0.
3 mg/dL, 4% to 37%; greater than or equal to 0.
5 mg/dL, 2% to 31%), decreases in serum phosphorus (4% to 6%), renal failure (greater than or equal to 2%), renal insufficiency (greater than or equal to 2%), glycosuria (greater than or equal to 3+, 1%), renal calculus, and renal pain.
Adefovir was discontinued due to renal side effects in 1% of pre- and post-liver transplant patients.
Causality could not be definitely determined because of the presence of multiple risk factors for renal dysfunction.
A rare potential risk of adefovir (the active ingredient contained in Hepsera) includes nephrotoxicity.
Fanconi-like syndrome and overall renal function deterioration have been reported at high doses.
Renal failure, proximal renal tubulopathy, and Fanconi syndrome have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Nervous system side effects have included headache (9%), dizziness, and insomnia.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included abdominal pain (9%), nausea (5%), flatulence (4%), diarrhea (3%), dyspepsia (3%), vomiting (2%), and anorexia.
Pancreatitis has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Hepatic side effects have included hepatic failure (greater than or equal to 2%), and laboratory abnormalities with increases in ALT (greater than 5 times ULN), AST (greater than 5 times ULN), creatine kinase (greater than 4 times ULN), and amylase (greater than 2 times ULN).
Nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with antiretrovirals have been associated with lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis.
Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis have been reported in patients who have discontinued adefovir (the active ingredient contained in Hepsera) dipivoxil.
Although most events appear to have been self-limited, fatalities have been reported.
Patients who discontinue adefovir dipivoxil should have close monitoring of hepatic function at repeated intervals over a period of time.
If appropriate, resumption of antihepatitis B therapy may be warranted.
Dermatologic side effects reported in pre- and post-liver transplantation patients have included pruritus and rash in greater than or equal to 2% of patients.
Respiratory side effects reported in pre- and post-liver transplantation patients have included increased cough, pharyngitis, and sinusitis in greater than or equal to 2% of patients.
Bronchitis and rhinitis have also been reported.
Cardiovascular side effects have included myocardial infarction at high doses.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgia.
Hypophosphatemic osteomalacia (in the context of Fanconi syndrome) has been reported.
Myopathy and osteomalacia (manifested as bone pain and may contribute to fractures), both associated with proximal renal tubulopathy, have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Metabolic side effects have included hypophosphatemia during postmarketing experience.
Ocular side effects have included amblyopia at high doses.
Dark urine
general tiredness and weakness
light-colored stools
nausea and vomiting
upper right abdomen or stomach pain
yellow eyes and skin
Blood in the urine
change in frequency of urination or amount of urine
difficult breathing
drowsiness
increased thirst
loss of appetite
swelling of the feet or lower legs
weakness
Fast, shallow breathing
general feeling of discomfort
muscle pain or cramping
shortness of breath
sleepiness
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bloating
bone fractures, especially of the thigh bone
bone pain
chills
cloudy urine
constipation
convulsions
darkened urine
decreased frequency or amount of urine
fast heartbeat
fever
increase in the amount of urine
increased blood pressure
indigestion
lower back or side pain
muscular pain, tenderness, wasting, or weakness
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
swelling of the face, fingers, or lower legs
weight gain
Abdominal or stomach pain
headache
lack or loss of strength
Acid or sour stomach
belching
bloated or full feeling
diarrhea
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
heartburn
passing gas
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain