Most side effects are related to local reactions such as injection site pain, pain, swelling, effusion, or redness of the joint.
Increased risk, severity, or frequency of side effects does not appear to occur with retreatment of sodium hyaluronate (the active ingredient contained in Hyalgan) 
Local side effects for sodium hyaluronate (the active ingredient contained in Hyalgan) in relation to placebo therapy have included injection site pain ( vs ), joint pain and swelling ( vs ), and local skin reactions consisting of ecchymosis and rash ( vs ) and pruritus ( vs ).
Warmth and redness have also been reported.
Injection site pain was listed as the reason for premature discontinuation of treatment in  (/) of the patients treated with sodium hyaluronate as compared to <  (/) of placebo-treated patients.
Patients with inflammatory arthritis may experience transient increases in inflammation of the injected knee following treatment.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included anaphylactoid reactions and allergic reactions.
Hypersensitivity reactions have included  cases of anaphylactoid reactions and  cases of allergic reactions, which resolved upon discontinuation of sodium hyaluronate.
Other side effects have included fever and headache.
Seven cases of fever were reported in one pivotal clinical study.
Subsequently,  of these cases were reported to be associated with local reactions.
No association to pyrogenic arthritis was found.
Gastrointestinal side effects for sodium hyaluronate (the active ingredient contained in Hyalgan) in relation to placebo therapy have included unspecified complaints ( vs ).
Non-specific gastrointestinal complaints were severe in both  of patients treated with sodium hyaluronate and  of patients treated with placebo.
There has been one case report of hypotensive crisis or shock, which resolved and did not reoccur with repeated treatment.
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypotensive crisis or shock.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included knee swelling/effusion and pseudosepsis.
Pseudosepsis has been characterized as severe joint inflammation with pain and effusion occurring  to  hours after injection and it may be more likely to occur after the second or third injection or with repeated courses.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, intra-articular steroids, and/or arthrocentesis are often required to treat pseudosepsis.
In a pivotal clinical study  (/) patients treated with sodium hyaluronate vs.
(/) patients treated with placebo were reported to have a positive bacterial culture of effusion aspirated from the treated knee.
Only  of the placebo-treated patients required hospitalization for presumptive treatment for septic arthritis.
The remaining  patients did not show clinical or subsequent signs of infection.
Blue color or flushing or redness of skin
cough
difficulty in swallowing
dizziness or feeling faint (severe)
fever
redness or pain at place of injection
skin rash, hives, and/or itching
stuffy nose
swelling of eyelids, face, or lips
tightness in chest, troubled breathing, and/or wheezing
Diarrhea
headache
itching of the skin
large, nonelevated blue or purplish patches in the skin
loss of appetite
nausea and/or vomiting
stomach pain 
swelling of the knee