Common side effects of Janumet include: lactic acidosis.
Other side effects include: nausea.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Metformin-sitagliptin:Very common (10% or more): Hypoglycemia (13.
8% when combined with sulfonylurea; 10.
9% when combined with insulin)Common (1% to 10%): Hypoglycemia, decrease levels of vitamin B12 without clinical manifestations and rarely associated with anemiaRare (less than 0.
1%): Lactic acidosis due to metforminSitagliptin:Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): HypoglycemiaMetformin:Common (1% to 10%): Hypoglycemia (5% or more when combined with glyburide)Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): HypoglycemiaVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Lactic acidosis, vitamin B12 deficiency
In metformin-treated patients, the incidence of lactic acidosis has been about 1.
5 cases per 10,000 patient years.
The risk of lactic acidosis has been particularly high in patients with underlying renal insufficiency and rarely in patients with normal renal function.
Concomitant cardiovascular or liver disease, sepsis, and hypoxia have also increased the risk of lactic acidosis.
Signs and symptoms of severe acidosis may include vomiting, abdominal pain, nausea, dyspnea, hypothermia, hypotension, and bradycardia.
Long-term treatment with metformin has been associated with a decrease in vitamin B12 absorption.
Malabsorption of vitamin B12, due to intrinsic factor deficiency and possibly other mechanisms, in as many as 30% of treated patients, were reported.
Megaloblastic anemia has occurred.
Decreased levels of vitamin B12 appear to be reversible with discontinuation of metformin or vitamin B12 supplementation.
Common (1% to 10%): Diarrhea, nausea, flatulence, vomiting Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Constipation, upper abdominal pain, dry mouthPostmarketing reports: Indigestion, abdominal discomfort, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, acute pancreatitis (including fatal and non-fatal hemorrhagic and necrotizing pancreatitis)Metformin: Very common (10% or more): Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, loss of appetite Sitagliptin:Rare (less than 0.
1%): Pancreatitis
Metformin-sitagliptin:Common (1% to 10%): HeadacheUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): SomnolenceFrequency not reported: AstheniaMetformin:Common (1% to 10%): metallic taste
Common (1% to 10%): Upper respiratory tract infections, nasopharyngitis, pharyngolaryngeal pain, bronchitis, sinusitis, influenzaPostmarketing reports: Interstitial lung disease
Frequency not reported: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis
Metformin-sitagliptin:Postmarketing reports: Hepatic enzyme elevationMetformin:Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Liver function disorders, hepatitis
Frequency not reported: Impaired renal function, acute renal failure (sometimes requiring dialysis)
Between October 2006 and December 2013, thirty-three cases of severe arthralgia have been reported to the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System Database.
Each case involved the use of 1 or more dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor.
In all cases, substantial reduction in prior activity level was reported, 10 patients were hospitalized due to disabling joint pain.
In 22 cases, symptoms appeared within 1 month of starting therapy, in 23 cases symptoms resolved less than 1 month after discontinuation.
A positive rechallenge was reported in 8 cases, with 6 cases involving use of a different DPP-4 inhibitor.
Sitagliptin had the greatest number of cases reported (n=28) followed by saxagliptin (n=5), linagliptin (n=2), alogliptin (n=1), and vildagliptin (n=2).
Common (1% to 10%): ArthralgiaPostmarketing reports: Myalgia, pain in extremities, back pain
Common (1% to 10%): Peripheral edema
Postmarketing reports: Angioedema, rash, urticaria, pruritus, cutaneous vasculitis, exfoliative skin conditions including Steven-Johnson syndromeMetformin:Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Urticaria, erythema, pruritus
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Megaloblastic anemia
Decreased serum vitamin B12 levels, without clinical manifestations (rarely megaloblastic anemia), has been reported in approximately 7% of patients.
The reduction in vitamin B12 levels may be due to interference with B12 absorption from the B12-intrinsic factor complex and appears to be rapidly reversible with discontinuation of metformin or vitamin B12 supplementation.
Anxiety
blurred vision
chills
cold sweats
confusion
cool, pale skin
depression
dizziness
fast heartbeat
headache
increased hunger
loss of consciousness
mental cloudiness
nausea
nightmares
not thinking clearly
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
unusual tiredness or weakness
Abdominal or stomach discomfort
decreased appetite
diarrhea
fast, shallow breathing
general feeling of discomfort
muscle pain or cramping
shortness of breath
sleepiness
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
darkened urine
hives or welts, itching, or skin rash
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
severe joint pain
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
vomiting
yellow eyes or skin
Bloated or full feeling
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
indigestion
lack or loss of strength
muscle aches
passing gas
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
vomiting