Common side effects of Jentadueto include: lactic acidosis and hypoglycemia.
Other side effects include: decreased vitamin b12 serum concentrate.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
The most commonly reported adverse events included nasopharyngitis and diarrhea.
Linagliptin-Metformin:Frequency not reported: HypoglycemiaLinagliptin:Common (1% to 10%): Hypertriglyceridemia, hyperlipidemia, weight increasedMetformin: Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Lactic acidosis, vitamin B12 deficiency
Hypoglycemia was more commonly reported in patients receiving the combination linagliptin / metformin plus a sulfonylurea compared with those receiving metformin plus a sulfonylurea (22.
9% vs 14.
8%; n=792).
Gastrointestinal events such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, decreased appetite, and abdominal pain occur most frequently during initiation of therapy and resolve spontaneously in most cases.
During clinical trials, pancreatitis was reported in 15.
2 cases per 10,000 patient year exposure in patients receiving linagliptin compared with 3.
7 cases per 10,000 patient year exposure in those receiving active comparator (sulfonylurea).
Following completion of clinical trials, 3 additional cases of pancreatitis were reported among those receiving linagliptin.
Postmarketing reports of acute pancreatitis, including fatalities, have been received.
Linagliptin-Metformin:Common (1% to 10%): Decreased appetite, diarrhea, nausea, vomitingUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Increased blood amylasePostmarketing reports: Mouth ulcerationLinagliptin:Common (1% to 10%): Constipation, diarrhea Frequency not reported: Pancreatitis Metformin:Very common (10% or more): Diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, decreased appetiteCommon (1% to 10%): Constipation Frequency not reported: Flatulence, indigestion
Linagliptin-Metformin:Rare (less than 0.
1%): Drug hypersensitivityLinagliptinPostmarketing reports: Serious hypersensitivity reactions
Serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and exfoliative skin conditions have been reported postmarketing in patients treated with linagliptin.
These reactions have occurred within the first 3 months, with some occurring after the first dose.
Linagliptin-MetforminCommon (1% to 10%): Nasopharyngitis (6.
3%),Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): CoughLinagliptin Common (1% to 10%): Nasopharyngitis, coughMetforminCommon (1% to 10%): Nasopharyngitis
Postmarketing reports of bullous pemphigoid requiring hospitalization have been reported with dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors use.
These case typically recovered with topical or systemic immunosuppressive treatment and discontinuation of DPP-4 inhibitor.
Linagliptin-Metformin:Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Pruritus Postmarketing reports: Angioedema, urticaria, rashMetformin:Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Skin reactions such as erythema, pruritus, and urticariaDipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors:Postmarketing reports: Bullous pemphigoid
MetforminVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Megaloblastic anemia
Metformin: Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Hepatitis, liver function test abnormalities
Linagliptin:Frequency not reported: Myalgia, arthralgia
Between October 2006 and December 2013, thirty-three cases of severe arthralgia have been reported to the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System Database.
Each case involved the use of 1 or more dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor.
In all cases, substantial reduction in prior activity level was reported, 10 patients were hospitalized due to disabling joint pain.
In 22 cases, symptoms appeared within 1 month of starting therapy, in 23 cases symptoms resolved less than 1 month after discontinuation.
A positive rechallenge was reported in 8 cases, with 6 cases involving use of a different DPP-4 inhibitor.
Sitagliptin had the greatest number of cases reported (n=28) followed by saxagliptin (n=5), linagliptin (n=2), alogliptin (n=1), and vildagliptin (n=2).
Metformin:Common (1% to 10%): Taste disturbance
Linagliptin:Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infection,
Linagliptin: Common (1% to 10%): HeadacheMetformin: Common (1% to 10%): Headache
Anxiety
blurred vision
chills
cold sweats
coma
confusion
cool, pale skin
depression
dizziness
fast heartbeat
headache
increased hunger
nausea
nightmares
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bloating
constipation
darkened urine
fainting spells
fever
indigestion
irregular heartbeat
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
severe joint pain
vomiting
yellow eyes or skin
Diarrhea
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
full feeling
heartburn
lack or loss of strength
muscle aches
passing gas
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
Cough
decreased appetite
difficulty with moving
flaking and falling off of the skin
hives or welts, itching, or skin rash
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pains or stiffness
redness of the skin
swollen joints