Common side effects of Kazano include: lactic acidosis, nausea, vomiting, and hypoglycemia.
Other side effects include: upper respiratory tract infection, abdominal distress, headache, and nasopharyngitis.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
The most common adverse reactions reported include upper respiratory tract infection, nasopharyngitis, diarrhea, hypertension, headache, back pain, and urinary tract infection.
Alogliptin-Metformin:Common ( to ): Diarrhea, gastroenteritis, abdominal pain, vomiting, gastritis, gastroesophageal reflux disease Alogliptin:Common ( to ): Diarrhea, abdominal pain, gastroesophageal reflux disease Uncommon ( to ): Pancreatitis Postmarketing reports: Acute pancreatitisMetformin:Very common ( or more): Diarrhea (up to ), Nausea/vomiting , flatulence Common ( to ): Indigestion, abdominal discomfort
Acute pancreatitis has been associated with DPP- inhibitors.
In a pooled analysis of  studies, the overall rate of pancreatitis reported with alogliptin  mg,  mg, active control, or placebo was , , , or , events per  patient years, respectively.
Alogliptin:Postmarketing reports: Hepatic enzyme elevations, fulminant hepatic failureMetformin:Very rare (less than ): Hepatitis, liver function test abnormalities
Cases of hepatic dysfunction including hepatic failure have been received in the postmarketing period with alogliptin-treated patients; causality has not been established.
Alogliptin-Metformin:Common ( to ): HypoglycemiaAlogliptin:Common ( to ): Hypoglycemia Metformin:Common ( to ): Hypoglycemia, loss of appetiteVery rare (less than ): Lactic acidosis, vitamin B deficiency
In metformin-treated patients, lactic acidosis has been reported in approximately  cases per  patient-years with approximately half these cases resulting in fatalities.
In more than , patient-years exposure in clinical trials, there were no cases of lactic acidosis.
Reported cases have occurred primarily in patients with significant renal insufficiency, often in the setting of multiple concomitant medical/surgical problems and multiple concomitant medications.
In an alogliptin monotherapy study, the incidence of hypoglycemia was  (compared with  in placebo).
Adding alogliptin to glyburide or insulin did not increase the incidence of hypoglycemia compared with placebo.
In elderly patients, the incidence of hypoglycemia was  with alogliptin compared with  for glipizide.
In a -week, placebo-controlled study of alogliptin once daily as add-on to a metformin regimen, hypoglycemic events were reported in  of patients in the alogliptin-metformin group compared with  in the placebo group.
Alogliptin:Uncommon ( to ): Hypersensitivity reactions Postmarketing reports: Anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, urticaria, severe cutaneous adverse reactions (Stevens-Johnson syndrome), erythema multiforme
Postmarketing reports of bullous pemphigoid requiring hospitalization have been reported with dipeptidyl peptidase- (DPP-) inhibitors use.
These case typically recovered with topical or systemic immunosuppressive treatment and discontinuation of DPP- inhibitor.
Alogliptin-metformin:Common ( to ): Pruritus, rashAlogliptin:Common ( to ): Pruritus, rashPostmarketing reports: Exfoliative skin conditions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, angioedema, urticariaMetformin:Very rare (less than ): Erythema, pruritus, urticariaDipeptidyl peptidase- inhibitors:Postmarketing reports: Bullous pemphigoid
Alogliptin-Metformin:Common ( to ): Upper respiratory tract infection, nasopharyngitis Alogliptin:Common ( to ): Nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection Metformin:Common ( to ): Upper respiratory tract infection, nasopharyngitis
Alogliptin-Metformin:Common ( to ): Headache Alogliptin:Common ( to ): Headache Metformin:Common ( to ): Headache, metallic taste
Alogliptin-Metformin:Common ( to ): Hypertension Alogliptin:Common ( to ): Hypertension Frequency not reported: Heart failureMetformin:Common ( to ): Hypertension
In a clinical trial in patients with recent acute coronary syndrome, a greater proportion of patients receiving this drug were hospitalized for congestive heart failure compared with placebo ( [n=] vs  [n=]),
Alogliptin-Metformin:Common ( to ): Urinary tract infection Alogliptin:Common ( to ): Urinary tract infection Metformin:Common ( to ): Urinary tract infection
Between October  and December , thirty-three cases of severe arthralgia have been reported to the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System Database.
Each case involved the use of  or more dipeptidyl peptidase- (DPP-) inhibitor.
In all cases, substantial reduction in prior activity level was reported,  patients were hospitalized due to disabling joint pain.
In  cases, symptoms appeared within  month of starting therapy, in  cases symptoms resolved less than  month after discontinuation.
A positive rechallenge was reported in  cases, with  cases involving use of a different DPP- inhibitor.
Sitagliptin had the greatest number of cases reported (n=) followed by saxagliptin (n=), linagliptin (n=), alogliptin (n=), and vildagliptin (n=).
Alogliptin-Metformin:Common ( to ): Back pain Alogliptin:Uncommon ( to ): Back painFrequency not reported: Arthralgia Metformin:Common ( to ): Back pain
Metformin: Common ( to ): Asthenia
Blurred vision
dizziness
headache
nervousness
pounding in the ears
slow or fast heartbeat
Anxiety
bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
chest pain
chills
cold sweats
coma
confusion
cool, pale skin
decreased urine output
depression
difficult, burning, or painful urination
dilated neck veins
extreme fatigue
frequent urge to urinate
increased hunger
irregular breathing
irregular heartbeat
lower back or side pain
nausea
nightmares
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or lower legs
tightness in chest
troubled breathing
unusual tiredness or weakness
weight gain
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating
constipation
cough
darkened urine
diarrhea
difficulty with swallowing
fever
hives or itching
indigestion
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
vomiting
yellow eyes or skin
Dark-colored urine
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
light-colored stools
redness of the skin
severe joint pain
stomach pain, continuing
welts
Body aches or pain
ear congestion
loss of voice
muscle aches
sneezing
stuffy or runny nose
Back pain