Nervous system side effects have been reported the most frequently.
These have included headache (up to  to ), dizziness ( to ), insomnia , anxiety , somnolence , asthenia, agitation, and stimulation.
Headache  has been reported in patients using the granisetron (the active ingredient contained in Kytril) transdermal system.
One case compatible with, but not diagnostic of, extrapyramidal symptoms has been reported.
Granisetron-induced headache is generally mild.
In clinical trials, headache typically resolved spontaneously or was relieved by analgesics.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea , constipation ( to ), vomiting , diarrhea ( to ), abdominal pain ( to ), dyspepsia ( to ), flatulence, dry mouth, and taste disturbances.
Constipation  has been reported in patients using the granisetron (the active ingredient contained in Kytril) transdermal system.
Constipation appears to be dose related.
In dose-finding studies, constipation occurred in up to  of patients treated with single doses of granisetron  mcg/kg.
If necessary, constipation may be alleviated by the use of laxatives.
Hepatic side effects have been reported rarely.
These have included elevations in serum transaminases (two times normal values).
Causality is unknown.
Acute pancreatitis has also been reported.
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypertension in  of patients.
Atrial fibrillation, angina pectoris, and syncope have been reported rarely.
Hypotension, sinus bradycardia, A-V block, ventricular ectopy, QT prolongation, and ECG changes have been reported as well, although causality is unknown.
Results of a review of the cardiovascular effects of the drug class -hydroxytryptamine  receptor antagonists in the literature reported that electrocardiographic (ECG) changes were so small to be considered clinically insignificant.
ECG changes were most noticeable between  to  hours after a dose of granisetron and returned to baseline within  hours.
To date, no serious cardiac side effects (including torsades de pointes) triggered by  ECG interval changes have been connected with the use of -HT  receptor antagonists.
Hypersensitivity side effects have been reported rarely.
These have included skin rashes, facial flushing, anaphylactoid reactions, shortness of breath, hypotension, and urticaria.
One report suggests hypersensitivity reactions with -HT -antagonists may be a class effect and cross-reactive.
Other side effects including asthenia ( to ) and fever (up to ) have been reported.
transdermal patch extended release
Blurred vision
fever
nervousness
pounding in the ears
slow or fast heartbeat
Arm, back, or jaw pain
chest pain or discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fainting
irregular heartbeat
nausea
shortness of breath
skin rash, hives, and itching
sweating
Abdominal or stomach pain
diarrhea
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
headache
lack or loss of strength
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Agitation
dizziness
drowsiness
fear
heartburn
indigestion
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sour stomach
trouble with sleeping
unusual taste in the mouth