Gastrointestinal side effects have included transient nausea and vomiting, nausea, gastritis, and taste fatigue.
Gastrointestinal side effects, in chronic hemodialysis patients, for levocarnitine (the active ingredient contained in L-Carnitine) in relation to placebo therapy have included transient nausea ( to  vs ), vomiting ( to  vs ), and diarrhea ( to  vs )  abdominal pain ( to  vs ), anorexia ( to  vs ), constipation ( vs ), dyspepsia ( to  vs ), gastrointestinal disorder ( to  vs ), melena ( to  vs ), and taste perversion ( to  vs ).
Gastrointestinal side effects associated with levocarnitine oral solution may be minimized or avoided by slow consumption or greater dilution of the solution.
Decreasing the dosage may also help alleviate gastrointestinal effects.
Gastrointestinal side effects are generally mild and have been reported in  of patients.
Taste fatigue may be reduced by mixing the oral solution with drinks or liquid foods.
Nervous system side effects have included seizures in patients with or without preexisting seizure activity, and increases in seizure frequency and/or severity in patients with preexisting seizure activity.
Nervous system side effects, in chronic hemodialysis patients, for levocarnitine (the active ingredient contained in L-Carnitine) in relation to placebo therapy have included anxiety ( to  vs ), dizziness ( to  vs ), hypertonia ( to  vs ), insomnia ( to  vs ), paresthesia ( to  vs ), and vertigo ( to  vs ).
There are reports from clinical trials of significant hypertriglyceridemia associated with high doses of levocarnitine (the active ingredient contained in L-Carnitine) ( g/day) given to uremic dialysis patients.
Metabolic side effects have included hypertriglyceridemia, decreases in triglyceride levels, and no effects on triglyceride levels.
Metabolic side effects, in hemodialysis patients, for levocarnitine in relation to placebo therapy have included  hypercalcemia ( to  vs ), hyperkalemia ( vs ), and hypervolemia ( to  vs ).
Other side effects have included body odor .
Other side effects, in chronic hemodialysis patients, for levocarnitine (the active ingredient contained in L-Carnitine) in relation to placebo therapy have included accidental injury ( to  vs ), fever ( to  vs ), peripheral edema ( to  vs ), weight decrease ( to  vs ), and weight increase ( to  vs ), headache ( to  vs ), back pain ( to  vs ), and pain ( to  vs ).
Body odor may be decreased or minimized by decreasing the dosage.
Local side effects, in chronic hemodialysis patients, for levocarnitine (the active ingredient contained in L-Carnitine) in relation to placebo have included injection site reactions ( to  vs ).
Musculoskeletal side effects, in chronic hemodialysis patients, for levocarnitine (the active ingredient contained in L-Carnitine) in relation to placebo therapy have included asthenia ( to  vs ) and leg cramps ( to  vs ).
Mild myasthenia has occurred in uremic patients receiving D,L-carnitine (but not levocarnitine).
Hematologic side effects, in chronic hemodialysis patients, for levocarnitine (the active ingredient contained in L-Carnitine) in relation to placebo therapy have included anemia ( to  vs ).
Other side effects have included significant increases in platelet aggregation and lack of effect on platelet activity.
There have been reports from clinical trials of significant increases in platelet aggregation associated with high doses of levocarnitine ( g/day) given to hemodialysis patients.
Endocrine side effects, in chronic hemodialysis patients, for levocarnitine (the active ingredient contained in L-Carnitine) in relation to placebo therapy have included parathyroid disorder ( to  vs ).
Respiratory side effects, in chronic hemodialysis patients, for levocarnitine (the active ingredient contained in L-Carnitine) in relation to placebo therapy have included  bronchitis ( to  vs ), cough increase ( to  vs ), dyspnea ( to  vs ), pharyngitis ( to  vs ), rhinitis ( to  vs ), and sinusitis ( to  vs ).
Dermatologic side effects, in chronic hemodialysis patients, for levocarnitine (the active ingredient contained in L-Carnitine) in relation to placebo therapy have included pruritus ( to  vs ) and rash ( to  vs ).
Ocular side effects, in chronic hemodialysis patients, for levocarnitine (the active ingredient contained in L-Carnitine) in relation to placebo therapy have included amblyopia ( to  vs ) and eye disorder ( to  vs ).
Genitourinary side effects, in chronic hemodialysis patients, for levocarnitine (the active ingredient contained in L-Carnitine) in relation to placebo therapy have included urinary tract infection ( to  vs ) and kidney failure ( vs ).
Cardiovascular side effects, in chronic hemodialysis patients, for levocarnitine (the active ingredient contained in L-Carnitine) in relation to placebo therapy have included arrhythmia ( to  vs ), atrial fibrillation ( to  vs ), cardiovascular disorder ( to  vs ), chest pain ( to  vs ), electrocardiogram abnormalities ( to  vs ), hemorrhage ( to  vs ), hypertension ( to  vs ), hypotension ( to  vs ), palpitations ( to  vs ), tachycardia ( to  vs ), and vascular disorder ( to  vs ).
Hypersensitivity side effects, in chronic hemodialysis patients, for levocarnitine (the active ingredient contained in L-Carnitine) in relation to placebo therapy have included allergic reactions ( to  vs ).
Causality has not been determined for side effects mentioned in chronic hemodialysis patients.
Psychiatric side effects, in chronic hemodialysis patients, for levocarnitine (the active ingredient contained in L-Carnitine) in relation to placebo therapy have included depression ( to  vs ) and drug dependence ( to  vs ).
Immunologic side effects, in chronic hemodialysis patients, for levocarnitine (the active ingredient contained in L-Carnitine) in relation to placebo therapy have included flu syndrome ( to  vs ), infection ( to  vs ).
High blood pressure
Fast heartbeat
fever
Seizures
Abdominal or stomach cramps
diarrhea 
headache
nausea or vomiting 
Abdominal discomfort
body odor
depression
dizziness
impaired vision
loss of appetite or weight
swelling in hands, lower legs, and feet
tingling sensation
weakness