Commonly reported side effects of lamivudine/zidovudine include: nausea and nausea and vomiting.
Other side effects include: neutropenia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Side effects have been reported with lamivudine and zidovudine, administered separately or together.
For many of these side effects, it was not clear if they were due to lamivudine, zidovudine, the other drugs used to treat HIV infection, or the underlying disease process.
In an advanced HIV disease study, headache , somnolence , dizziness , paresthesia , and taste perversion  were reported with zidovudine; only headache was reported at a significantly greater rate than placebo.
In this study, seizures, vertigo, hearing loss, hyperalgesia, tremor, and syncope were reported in less than  of patients using zidovudine.
In an asymptomatic HIV infection study, headache and dizziness were reported in  and  (using  mg) and  and  (using  mg) of patients using zidovudine, respectively.
Very common ( or more): Headache (up to ), neuropathy (up to ), dizziness (up to )Frequency not reported: Syncope, taste perversionPostmarketing reports: Paresthesia, peripheral neuropathy, seizuresLamivudine:-Common ( to ): Headache-Rare ( to ): Peripheral neuropathy/neuropathy, paresthesiaZidovudine:-Very common ( or more): Headache, dizziness-Common ( to ): Neuropathy, paresthesia, somnolence, taste perversion-Rare ( to ): Convulsions-Frequency not reported: Generalized seizures, status epilepticus, vertigo, Wernicke's syndrome, hearing loss, hyperalgesia, tremor, syncope
Very common ( or more): Nausea , diarrhea , nausea and vomiting , abdominal discomfort and pain (up to )Common ( to ): Abdominal cramps, dyspepsia, elevated amylase, fungal gastrointestinal (GI) infection, GI discomfort and pain, gaseous symptoms, vomitingUncommon ( to ): PancreatitisFrequency not reported: FlatulencePostmarketing reports: Oral mucosal pigmentation, stomatitis, pancreatitisLamivudine:-Common ( to ): Nausea, vomiting, abdominal discomfort and pain or cramps, diarrhea-Uncommon ( to ): Pancreatitis, abnormal pancreatic enzymes-Rare ( to ): Elevated serum amylaseZidovudine:-Very common ( or more): Nausea, GI pain, diarrhea, vomiting-Common ( to ): Abdominal discomfort and pain, fungal GI infection, GI discomfort and pain, gaseous symptoms, elevated amylase, dyspepsia-Uncommon ( to ): Flatulence-Rare ( to ): Oral mucosa pigmentation, pancreatitis-Frequency not reported: Constipation, dysphagia, tongue edema, eructation, bleeding gums, rectal hemorrhage, lip edema, mouth ulcer
Elevated amylase (greater than  times the upper limit of normal [ x ULN]) has been reported in  of patients using lamivudine plus zidovudine and  of patients using zidovudine.
Incidence was higher in patients with mild laboratory abnormalities at baseline.
In an advanced HIV disease study, nausea , GI pain , diarrhea , vomiting , and dyspepsia  were reported with zidovudine; only nausea was reported at a significantly greater rate than placebo.
In this study, constipation, dysphagia, tongue edema, eructation, flatulence, bleeding gums, rectal hemorrhage, lip edema, and mouth ulcer were reported in less than  of patients using zidovudine.
In the early symptomatic HIV disease study, nausea , vomiting , and dyspepsia  were reported with zidovudine.
In an asymptomatic HIV infection study, nausea, vomiting, and constipation were reported in , , and  (using  mg) and , , and  (using  mg) of patients using zidovudine, respectively.
In an advanced HIV disease study, asthenia , fever , and malaise  were reported with zidovudine.
In this study, chills, influenza syndrome, and chest pain were reported in less than  of patients using zidovudine.
In the early symptomatic HIV disease study, asthenia was reported in  of patients using zidovudine.
In an asymptomatic HIV infection study, asthenia and malaise were reported in  and  (using  mg) and  and  (using  mg) of patients using zidovudine, respectively.
Very common ( or more): Malaise and fatigue ; ear, nose, and throat infection (up to )Common ( to ): Fever or chills; viral ear, nose, and throat infection; viral infectionPostmarketing reports: WeaknessLamivudine:-Common ( to ): Fatigue, malaise, feverZidovudine:-Very common ( or more): Asthenia, fever, malaise-Common ( to ): Ear, nose, and throat infection; viral ear, nose, and throat infection; viral infection-Uncommon ( to ): Generalized pain-Rare ( to ): Chills, chest pain, influenza-like syndrome-Frequency not reported: Influenza syndromeAntiretroviral therapy:-Frequency not reported: Increased weight
Very common ( or more): Nasal signs and symptoms , cough , throat and tonsil discomfort and pain (up to )Common ( to ): Bronchitis, sinusitis, breathing disorders, upper respiratory inflammationFrequency not reported: Dyspnea, rhinitisPostmarketing reports: Abnormal breath sounds/wheezingLamivudine:-Common ( to ): Cough, nasal symptomsZidovudine:-Common ( to ): Throat and tonsil discomfort and pain, sinusitis, bronchitis, breathing disorders, upper respiratory inflammation, dyspnea-Rare ( to ): Cough-Frequency not reported: Epistaxis, pharyngitis, rhinitis, hoarseness
In an advanced HIV disease study, dyspnea  was reported with zidovudine.
In this study, cough, epistaxis, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis, and hoarseness were reported in less than  of patients using zidovudine.
Very common ( or more): Musculoskeletal pain (up to )Common ( to ): Myalgia, arthralgiaPostmarketing reports: Muscle weakness, elevated creatine phosphokinase (CPK), rhabdomyolysisLamivudine:-Common ( to ): Arthralgia, muscle disorders-Rare ( to ): RhabdomyolysisZidovudine:-Common ( to ): Musculoskeletal pain, myalgia-Uncommon ( to ): Myopathy-Frequency not reported: Symptomatic myopathy, myositis, back pain, arthralgia, muscle spasm, twitchCombination antiretroviral therapy:-Frequency not reported: Osteonecrosis
Myopathy and myositis (with pathological changes similar to that produced by HIV- disease) have been associated with prolonged zidovudine use.
In an advanced HIV disease study, myalgia  was reported with zidovudine at a significantly greater rate than placebo.
In this study, back pain, arthralgia, muscle spasm, twitch, and myopathy were reported in less than  of patients using zidovudine.
In  zidovudine study, myalgias and elevated CPK occurred in  of treated patients with a CD cell count less than /mm, and in none of the patients with higher CD cell counts.
Dose reduction has not affected the course of myopathy, although drug discontinuation sometimes resulted in improvement of symptoms, generally within a month.
Muscle biopsy has shown atrophic and sometimes necrotic fibers, ragged-red fibers, and large accumulations of mitochondrial and fibrillar sarcoplasmic inclusions.
In an advanced HIV disease study, insomnia  was reported with zidovudine at a significantly greater rate than placebo.
In this study, anxiety, confusion, depression, emotional lability, nervousness, and loss of mental acuity were reported in less than  of patients using zidovudine.
Very common ( or more): Insomnia and other sleep disorders (up to )Common ( to ): Depressive disordersLamivudine:-Common ( to ): InsomniaZidovudine:-Common ( to ): Sleep disorders, insomnia-Rare ( to ): Anxiety, depression, loss of mental acuity-Frequency not reported: Mania, confusion, grandiosity, emotional lability, nervousness
Common ( to ): Elevated ALT, elevated AST, abnormal liver function testsUncommon ( to ): Elevated bilirubinFrequency not reported: Severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, hepatic decompensationPostmarketing reports: Hepatic steatosis, posttreatment exacerbation of hepatitis BLamivudine:-Uncommon ( to ): Elevated liver enzymes (AST, ALT)-Rare ( to ): Hepatitis, abnormal liver function testsZidovudine:-Common ( to ): Elevated liver enzyme levels in blood (including ALT, AST), elevated bilirubin levels in blood-Rare ( to ): Liver disorders (, severe hepatomegaly with steatosis)-Frequency not reported: Changes in liver function tests (including increased AST levels), acute hepatic failure
Elevated ALT (greater than  x ULN), AST (greater than  x ULN), and bilirubin (greater than  x ULN) have been reported in , , and  of patients using lamivudine plus zidovudine, respectively, and , , and  of patients using zidovudine, respectively.
Incidence was higher in patients with mild laboratory abnormalities at baseline.
Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis (including fatal cases) have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs.
Hepatic decompensation (some fatal) has been reported in patients coinfected with HIV- and hepatitis C virus (HCV) receiving combination antiretroviral therapy for HIV- and interferon alfa with or without ribavirin.
Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis have been reported in patients with hepatitis B after discontinuation of lamivudine.
In an advanced HIV disease study, changes in liver function tests (including increased AST levels) was reported in less than  of patients using zidovudine.
One patient with preexisting hepatitis B developed acute hepatic failure  weeks after starting zidovudine therapy.
Common ( to ): Neutropenia, anemia, lymphatic signs/symptoms, decreased white cellsUncommon ( to ): ThrombocytopeniaPostmarketing reports: Anemia (including pure red cell aplasia and anemias progressing on therapy), lymphadenopathy, splenomegalyLamivudine:-Uncommon ( to ): Neutropenia, anemia, thrombocytopenia, decreased white cells-Very rare (less than ): Pure red cell aplasiaZidovudine:-Very common ( or more): Granulocytopenia, anemia-Common ( to ): Neutropenia, leukopenia, lymphatic signs/symptoms, decreased white cells, thrombocytopenia-Uncommon ( to ): Pancytopenia (with marrow hypoplasia)-Rare ( to ): Pure red cell aplasia-Very rare (less than ): Aplastic anemia-Frequency not reported: Exacerbation of anemia, hemolytic anemia, hematologic toxicity (including neutropenia, severe anemia), lymphadenopathy
Neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count less than /mm), anemia (hemoglobin less than  g/dL), and thrombocytopenia (platelets less than ,/mm) have been reported in , , and  of patients using lamivudine plus zidovudine, respectively, and , , and  of patients using zidovudine, respectively.
Incidence was higher in patients with mild laboratory abnormalities at baseline.
Occasionally, neutropenia and anemia reported with lamivudine were severe.
Granulocytopenia (less than /mm) has been reported in  (CD up to  using  mg),  (CD up to  using  mg),  (CD greater than  using  mg),  (CD greater than  using  mg), and  (CD less than  using  mg) of patients using zidovudine.
Anemia (hemoglobin less than  g/dL) has been reported in  (CD up to  using  mg),  (CD up to  using  mg),  (CD greater than  using  mg),  (CD greater than  using  mg), and  (CD less than  using  mg) of patients using zidovudine.
Zidovudine has been associated with hematologic toxicity (including neutropenia and severe anemia), particularly in patients with advanced HIV- disease.
Anemia, neutropenia, and leukopenia were reported more often with higher doses ( to  mg/day) and in patients with advanced HIV disease (especially with poor bone marrow reserve at baseline) and particularly in those with CD cell counts less than /mm  These hematological effects were generally observed after  to  weeks of therapy.
Incidence of neutropenia increased in patients with low neutrophil counts, hemoglobin levels, and serum vitamin B levels at baseline.
Exacerbation of anemia has been reported in HIV-/HCV-coinfected patients using zidovudine and ribavirin.
In an advanced HIV disease study, lymphadenopathy was reported in less than  of patients using zidovudine.
Common ( to ): Anorexia and/or decreased appetitePostmarketing reports: Hyperglycemia, redistribution/accumulation of body fat, lactic acidosisLamivudine:-Very rare (less than ): Lactic acidosis-Postmarketing reports: Hyperlactatemia (common), lactic acidosis (rare), redistribution/accumulation of body fatZidovudine:-Very common ( or more): Anorexia-Rare ( to ): Lactic acidosis (without hypoxemia)-Frequency not reported: Redistribution/accumulation of body fat, hyperlactatemiaAntiretroviral therapy:-Frequency not reported: Redistribution/accumulation of body fat (including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement, peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, "cushingoid appearance"), increased blood lipid levels, increased glucose levels
Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis (including fatal cases) have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs.
In an advanced HIV disease study, anorexia  was reported with zidovudine.
In this study, redistribution/accumulation of body fat was reported in less than  of patients using zidovudine.
In an asymptomatic HIV infection study, anorexia was reported in  (using  mg) and  (using  mg) of patients using zidovudine.
Redistribution/accumulation of body fat has been reported with antiretroviral therapy; causality has not been established.
In an advanced HIV disease study, rash  and diaphoresis  were reported with zidovudine.
In this study, acne, pruritus, urticaria, nail pigmentation, and body odor were reported in less than  of patients using zidovudine.
Bluish or brownish-black discoloration of nails has developed during the first  or  months of zidovudine therapy and usually disappeared within  months if the drug is discontinued.
Discoloration has occurred as longitudinal streaks or transverse bands.
Common ( to ): Skin rashes, sweating, fungal skin infection, acne and folliculitis, viral skin infectionFrequency not reported: PruritusPostmarketing reports: Alopecia, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticariaLamivudine:-Common ( to ): Rash, alopecia-Rare ( to ): AngioedemaZidovudine:-Very common ( or more): Rash-Common ( to ): Sweating/diaphoresis, fungal skin infection, acne and folliculitis, viral skin infection-Uncommon ( to ): Pruritus-Rare ( to ): Nail and skin pigmentation, urticaria-Frequency not reported: Lipoatrophy, skin and nailbed pigmentation changes, toxic epidermal necrolysis, leukocytoclastic vasculitis (with eosinophilia and fever), nail hyperpigmentation (rarely accompanied by mucocutaneous pigmentation or hypertrichosis), body odor
Frequency not reported: PhlebitisPostmarketing reports: Cardiomyopathy, vasculitisZidovudine:-Rare ( to ): Cardiomyopathy-Frequency not reported: Vasodilation
In an advanced HIV disease study, vasodilation was reported in less than  of patients using zidovudine.
Frequency not reported: Immune reconstitution/reactivation syndrome, autoimmune disorders in the setting of immune reconstitution (, Graves' disease, polymyositis, Guillain-Barre syndrome)
Frequency not reported: Disturbances of visionZidovudine:-Frequency not reported: Amblyopia, photophobia, macular edema
In an advanced HIV disease study, amblyopia and photophobia were reported in less than  of patients using zidovudine.
At least  case of macular edema was deemed definitively associated with zidovudine in a patient with history of anterior uveitis secondary to syphilis.
Postmarketing reports: Sensitization reactions (including anaphylaxis)Zidovudine:-Frequency not reported: Sensitization reactions (including anaphylaxis)
Postmarketing reports: GynecomastiaZidovudine:-Rare ( to ): Gynecomastia
In an advanced HIV disease study, urinary frequency, urinary hesitancy, dysuria, and polyuria were reported in less than  of patients using zidovudine.
Zidovudine:-Rare ( to ): Urinary frequency-Frequency not reported: Urinary hesitancy, dysuria, polyuria
Chills
fever
pale skin
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness
Abdominal or stomach pain (severe)
burning, tingling, numbness, or pain in the hands, arms, feet, or legs
muscle tenderness and weakness
nausea
skin rash
vomiting
yellow eyes or skin
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
canker sores
chest discomfort or pain
chills
convulsions
dark urine
decreased appetite
difficulty with breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
faintness
fast, irregular, or pounding heartbeat
fast, shallow breathing
feeling of fullness
general feeling of discomfort
general tiredness and weakness
hives or welts
itching
itching, puffiness, or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
jerking of all extremities
joint or muscle pain
light-colored stools
loss of bladder control
muscle pain, spasms, stiffness, or cramping
red skin lesions often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
redness, soreness, or itching skin
sensation of pins and needles
shortness of breath
sleepiness
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips or tongue
sores, welting or blisters 
stabbing pain
sudden loss of consciousness
swelling of the feet or lower legs
tingling, burning, numbness, or pain in the hands, arms, feet, or legs
tightness in the chest
troubled with breathing
unsteadiness or awkwardness
wheezing
Headache
Abdominal or stomach pain (mild)
coughing
decreased appetite
diarrhea
dizziness
trouble in sleeping
Abnormal breathing
blurred vision
body fat redistribution or accumulation
darkening of the skin and mucous membranes
dry mouth
fatigue
flushed, dry skin
fruit-like breath odor
hair loss
increased hunger
increased thirst
increased urination
sweating
swelling of the breasts or breast soreness in both females and males
swollen, painful, or tender lymph glands in the neck, armpit, or groin
thinning of the hair
troubled breathing, unexplained