If any of the following side effects occur while taking levamisole, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Levamisole may cause a temporary loss of hair in some people.
After treatment has ended, normal hair growth should return.
One analysis of  reports representing , patients, found that patients treated for rheumatic disorders (n=) reported a significantly higher rate of leukopenia and agranulocytosis .
The majority of these patients  discontinued therapy.
Leukopenia is usually not prodromal to agranulocytosis.
Reports show some indication that agranulocytosis is due to a type II reaction (Coombs' classification).
Management of levamisole-induced agranulocytosis includes early diagnosis, discontinuation of treatment, and prevention of infection.
Agranulocytosis is spontaneously reversible when treatment is discontinued.
Hematologic toxicity primarily involves (sometimes fatal) agranulocytosis.
Leukopenia has been reported in  (over ,/mm),  (, to ,/mm), and less than  (less than ,/mm).
Transient granulocytopenia has been reported in up to  of treated patients.
Recovery is usually spontaneous.
In patients with thrombocytopenia,  of patients show platelet counts over ,/mm, and  show platelet counts between , and ,/mm
Dermatologic side effects include dermatitis , alopecia , pruritus  and urticaria (<).
One analysis of  reports representing , patients, found that patients treated for rheumatic disorders (n=) reported a significantly high percentage of idiosyncratic or allergic reactions.
These included skin rash .
Half of the patients experiencing skin rash discontinued therapy .
Flu-like symptoms including fatigue , fever , rigors , myalgia, and malaise have been reported.
Fever may be a symptom of infection associated with agranulocytosis, but often it is not.
Gastrointestinal side effects include nausea , diarrhea , vomiting , stomatitis , anorexia , abdominal pain , and constipation .
Flatulence and dyspepsia have also been reported.
Cardiac dysfunction leading to edema  and chest pain (<) have been reported.
Musculoskeletal side effects including arthralgia  and myalgia  have been reported.
Nervous system side effects including dizziness , headache , paresthesia , taste perversion , and an altered sense of smell  have been reported.
Psychiatric side effects including somnolence , depression , nervousness , insomnia , and anxiety  have been reported.
Confusion, hallucinations, impaired concentration, nightmares, and an encephalopathy-like syndrome have also been reported.
A case has been reported of a psychotic episode which was believed to be caused by prolonged levamisole use.
Ocular side effects including blurred vision  and conjunctivitis (<) have been reported.
Periorbital edema has also been reported.
Infection  has been reported.
Hyperbilirubinemia and increased alkaline phosphatase have been reported rarely.
Renal failure and elevated serum creatinine have been reported rarely.
One case report of syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone has been reported.
Other adverse reactions including vaginal bleeding and anaphylaxis have been reported.
Fever or chills
unusual feeling of discomfort or weakness
Black, tarry stools
blood in urine or stools
cough or hoarseness
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination 
pinpoint red spots on skin
unusual bleeding or bruising
Sores in mouth and on lips
Blurred vision
confusion
convulsions (seizures)
lip smacking or puffing
numbness, tingling, or pain in face, hands, or feet
paranoia (feelings of persecution) 
puffing of cheeks
rapid or worm-like movements of tongue
trembling or shaking 
trouble in walking
uncontrolled movements of arms and legs
Diarrhea
metallic taste
nausea
Anxiety or nervousness
dizziness
headache
mental depression
nightmares
pain in joints or muscles 
skin rash or itching
trouble in sleeping
unusual tiredness or sleepiness 
vomiting