Common side effects of Lexiva include: skin rash.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Diarrhea, rash, nausea, vomiting, and headache were the most frequent moderate to severe side effects in clinical trials of fosamprenavir (the active ingredient contained in Lexiva)   Discontinuations due to side effects were  in patients receiving fosamprenavir compared to  in those receiving comparator therapies.
The most common side effects leading to fosamprenavir discontinuation (incidence of  or less) included diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, increased AST, increased ALT, and rash.
Dermatologic side effects of moderate to severe intensity have included rash (up to ) in patients treated with combination therapy.
Skin rash, regardless of causality, occurred in approximately  of patients treated with fosamprenavir (the active ingredient contained in Lexiva) in studies.
Rashes were generally maculopapular and of mild or moderate intensity, some with pruritus.
Severe or life-threatening skin reactions, including at least  case of Stevens-Johnson syndrome, have been reported during clinical trials.
Erythema multiforme has been reported in at least  patient receiving fosamprenavir with ritonavir, zidovudine, and lamivudine.
Angioedema has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Skin rash, regardless of causality, had a median onset and duration of  and  days, respectively, and led to discontinuation of fosamprenavir in less than  of patients.
Gastrointestinal side effects of moderate to severe intensity have included diarrhea (up to ), nausea (up to ), vomiting (up to ), and abdominal pain (up to ) in patients treated with combination therapy.
The mechanism and long-term consequences of body fat redistribution/accumulation are currently unknown and a causal relationship has not been established.
Metabolic side effects have included increased serum lipase (greater than  times ULN; up to ), triglycerides (greater than  mg/dL; up to ), glucose (greater than  mg/dL; ), and amylase.
Redistribution/accumulation of body fat, including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement, peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, and "cushingoid appearance," have been observed in patients receiving antiretroviral therapy, including fosamprenavir.
Hypercholesterolemia has been reported during postmarketing experience.
New onset diabetes mellitus, exacerbation of preexisting diabetes mellitus, and hyperglycemia have been reported during postmarketing experience in HIV-infected patients receiving protease inhibitor therapy; however, causality has not been established.
Hepatic side effects have included elevated ALT (greater than  times ULN; up to ) and AST (greater than  times ULN; up to ).
Liver toxicity has been reported in patients receiving fosamprenavir (the active ingredient contained in Lexiva) with ritonavir, zidovudine, and lamivudine.
Nervous system side effects of moderate to severe intensity have included headache (up to ) in patients treated with combination therapy.
Oral paresthesia has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Other side effects of moderate to severe intensity have included fatigue (up to ) in patients treated with combination therapy.
Elevated creatine kinase has been reported.
Hematologic side effects have included neutropenia (less than  cells/mm; ).
Acute hemolytic anemia has been associated with amprenavir.
Hematologic side effects associated with protease inhibitors have included spontaneous bleeding in patients with hemophilia A and B.
In many of the reported cases, treatment with protease inhibitors was continued or restarted and some patients required additional factor VIII.
A causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these episodes has not been established.
Psychiatric side effects have included depressive/mood disorders.
Cardiovascular side effects have included myocardial infarction during postmarketing experience.
Genitourinary side effects have included nephrolithiasis during postmarketing experience.
Immunologic side effects have included immune reconstitution syndrome.
Autoimmune disorders (, Graves' disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barre syndrome) have been reported in the setting of immune reconstitution.
Severe skin rash
Abdominal or stomach pain
blurred vision
depression
dry mouth
flushed, dry skin
fruit-like breath odor
increased hunger
increased thirst
increased urination
mood or mental changes
nausea
sweating
troubled breathing
unexplained weight loss
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Back, leg, or stomach pains
bleeding gums
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
chills
cough
dark urine
diarrhea
difficulty with breathing
fever
general body swelling
itching
joint or muscle pain
loss of appetite
nosebleeds
pale skin
red skin lesions often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
yellowing of the eyes or skin
Large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
Mild or moderate rash
Burning or prickling sensation around the mouth
headache
Breast enlargement
buffalo hump
increased fat deposits on the face, neck, and trunk
obesity