More frequently reported side effects include: hypoglycemia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Uncommon ( to ): Constipation, increased amylase levelsFrequency not reported: PancreatitisPostmarketing reports: Acute pancreatitis
During clinical trials, pancreatitis was reported in  cases per , patient year exposure in patients receiving linagliptin compared with  cases per , patient year exposure in those receiving active comparator (sulfonylurea).
Following completion of clinical trials,  additional cases of pancreatitis were reported among those receiving linagliptin.
Postmarketing reports of acute pancreatitis, including fatalities, have been received.
The most common adverse event reported was nasopharyngitis.
Serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and exfoliative skin conditions have been reported postmarketing in patients treated with this drug.
These reactions have occurred within the first  months, with some occurring after the first dose.
Frequency not reported: Drug hypersensitivityPostmarketing reports: Serious hypersensitivity reactions
Common ( to ): Hypoglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, hyperlipidemia, increased uric acid
The incidence of hypoglycemia in patients treated with this drug as monotherapy, or in combination with metformin or pioglitazone, was similar to the incidence observed in placebo-treated patients.
When given in combination with metformin plus a sulfonylurea, the incidence of hypoglycemia was almost  compared to  in those receiving placebo with metformin plus a sulfonylurea.
As add-on to stable insulin therapy, the incidence of hypoglycemia was similar to placebo ( versus ).
Postmarketing reports of bullous pemphigoid requiring hospitalization have been reported with dipeptidyl peptidase- (DPP-) inhibitors use.
These case typically recovered with topical or systemic immunosuppressive treatment and discontinuation of DPP- inhibitor.
Postmarketing reports: Rash, angioedema, urticariaDipeptidyl peptidase- inhibitors:Postmarketing reports: Bullous pemphigoid
Common ( to ): Cough, nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection
Between October  and December , thirty-three cases of severe arthralgia have been reported to the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System Database.
Each case involved the use of  or more dipeptidyl peptidase- (DPP-) inhibitor.
In all cases, substantial reduction in prior activity level was reported,  patients were hospitalized due to disabling joint pain.
In  cases, symptoms appeared within  month of starting therapy, in  cases symptoms resolved less than  month after discontinuation.
A positive rechallenge was reported in  cases, with  cases involving use of a different DPP- inhibitor.
Sitagliptin had the greatest number of cases reported (n=) followed by saxagliptin (n=), linagliptin (n=), alogliptin (n=), and vildagliptin (n=).
Common ( to ): Back pain, arthralgia, extremity pain
Common ( to ): Headache
Common ( to ): Urinary tract infection
Anxiety
blurred vision
chills
cold sweats
coma
confusion
cool, pale skin
depression
dizziness
fast heartbeat
headache
increased hunger
nausea
nightmares
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bloating
constipation
cough
fever
hives, welts, itching, or skin rash
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
redness of the skin
severe joint pain
Muscle aches
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
Diarrhea