Note: Some of the above side effects may also occur up to several weeks after you Stop taking lincomycin.
The onset of pseudomembranous colitis symptoms has been reported during and after antibacterial therapy.
Esophagitis was reported with oral preparations.
Frequency not reported: Glossitis, stomatitis, nausea, vomiting, abdominal distress, persistent diarrhea, enterocolitis, antibacterial-associated diarrhea and colitis, pruritus ani, pseudomembranous colitis, Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, esophagitis
Some hypersensitivity reactions occurred in penicillin-sensitive patients.
A 19-year-old male patient, who had received 2 previous IM injections of lincomycin at the age of 17 years and 1 IM injection 2 weeks prior, reported that a few minutes after his fourth IM injection he noticed a tingling sensation around his face and mouth.
The patient's symptoms progressed to bright red to blue-violet skin discoloration, injection of the bulbar conjunctivae, and swelling of his face, neck, and ears.
The patient recovered without incident after receiving adrenaline and betamethasone IM followed by oral prednisone with an antihistamine.
Frequency not reported: Hypersensitivity reactions (such as angioneurotic edema, serum sickness, anaphylaxis); face, ears, and neck swelling
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Exfoliative and vesiculobullous dermatitisFrequency not reported: Skin rashes, urticaria, pruritus, erythema multiforme (some resembling Stevens-Johnson syndrome)
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Aplastic anemia, pancytopeniaFrequency not reported: Neutropenia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, thrombocytopenic purpura
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Cardiopulmonary arrestFrequency not reported: Hypotension
Cases of hypotension after parenteral administration have been reported, especially after too rapid IV administration.
Rare cases of cardiopulmonary arrest have been reported after this drug was administered IV too rapidly.
In these cases, the affected patients subsequently tolerated slow infusions.
A study that looked at multiple large dose administration of this drug found that when the doses were appropriately diluted and administered more slowly, cardiovascular changes did not occur.
Frequency not reported: Jaundice, abnormal liver function tests (especially elevated serum transaminase)
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Renal dysfunction, azotemia, oliguria
Rare (less than 0.
1%): ProteinuriaFrequency not reported: Vaginitis
Frequency not reported: Tinnitus, vertigo, neuromuscular blockade, metallic taste in mouth
Frequency not reported:-IM: Pain following injection, local irritation, pain induration, sterile abscess formation-IV: Thrombophlebitis
Frequency not reported: Bulbar conjunctival injection
Abdominal or stomach cramps and pain (severe)
abdominal tenderness
diarrhea (watery and severe), which may also be bloody
fever
Skin rash, redness, and itching
sore throat and fever
unusual bleeding and bruising
Diarrhea (mild)
nausea and vomiting 
stomach pain
Itching of rectal or genital (sex organ) areas