More frequently reported side effects include: anemia, decreased hemoglobin, and thrombocytopenia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Other dosage forms:
This drug was discontinued due to side effects in up to  of patients.
The most common side effects leading to discontinuation were diarrhea, headache, nausea, and vomiting.
Common ( to ): Headache, dizziness, taste alteration/perversion (metallic taste)Uncommon ( to ): Convulsions, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, tinnitusFrequency not reported: Drowsiness, seizure, Bell's palsy, sensory lossPostmarketing reports: Serotonin syndrome (with concomitant serotonergic agents), peripheral neuropathy
Several cases of peripheral and/or optic neuropathy have been reported, mainly when the duration of therapy was longer than  days.
For example, irreversible sensory loss and peripheral neuropathy were reported in a patient after using this drug for  months for actinomycosis.
The time from the onset of therapy to the first sign of peripheral neuropathy averaged  months (range:  days to  months) in  patients with only peripheral neuropathy.
In all patients with peripheral neuropathy (n=), complete recovery was not observed after this drug was stopped.
At least  instances of serotonin syndrome have been reported in patients using this drug with citalopram, sertraline, venlafaxine, fluoxetine, or paroxetine; other concurrent drugs and/or comorbidities may have contributed to the development of serotonin syndrome.
The time from the onset of therapy to the first sign of serotonin syndrome averaged  days (range:  to  days) and from the first sign to stopping this drug ranged from  to  days.
Symptoms resolved within  to  days in  patients while  patient died suddenly.
Three patients died.
The first patient developed symptoms  weeks after concurrent use of this drug and citalopram.
Severe lactic acidosis developed followed by myocardial infarction, and after  further episodes of cardiac arrest, the patient died.
The second patient stopped sertraline on day  and developed symptoms on day  of linezolid therapy.
The patient had cardiopulmonary arrest, then anoxic brain injury, hypertension, tachycardia, and diarrhea, and died in  weeks; a similar incident occurred  weeks earlier when this drug and sertraline were used.
The third patient, who was using citalopram, developed symptoms on day  of linezolid therapy and died with cerebral hemorrhage  month after the start of serotonin syndrome despite stopping this drug.
A -year-old male with multiple comorbidities developed symptoms on day  of therapy and was diagnosed with Bell's palsy; symptoms included strange sensation in mouth (no pain, sores, blisters), excessive tearing of left eye, inability to drink properly, left facial frowning, and left-sided facial weakness (involving upper and lower facial muscles).
This drug was discontinued and the Bell's palsy completely resolved by day   The patient restarted linezolid  months later and again showed symptoms on day  of therapy.
This drug was discontinued and by day , the Bell's palsy had practically resolved.
The patient had no remaining symptoms  months after his second episode.
Convulsions have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
In cases with known outcome, tooth discoloration was removable with professional dental cleaning (manual descaling).
A -year-old man with spondylodiscitis developed a fatal case of C difficile colitis after a long-term course of this drug.
Superficial tooth discoloration and tongue discoloration have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Common ( to ): Diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, elevated lipase, elevated amylase, tongue discoloration, oral candidiasis, localized abdominal pain, generalized abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsiaUncommon ( to ): Pancreatitis, gastritis, abdominal distention, dry mouth, glossitis, loose stools, stomatitis, tongue disorderRare ( to ): Antibiotic-associated colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis), superficial tooth discolorationFrequency not reported: Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea, lingua villosa nigra, C difficile colitis
Common ( to ): Decreased hemoglobin, decreased platelet count, decreased WBC count, anemia, decreased neutrophils, thrombocytopenia/low platelet count (some requiring platelet transfusions), decreased leukocytes, increased neutrophils, increased eosinophils, decreased hematocrit, decreased RBC count, increased platelet count, increased WBC countUncommon ( to ): Leukopenia, neutropenia, eosinophilia, increased reticulocyte countRare ( to ): PancytopeniaFrequency not reported: Red cell hypoplasia, myelotoxicity, bleeding eventsPostmarketing reports: Myelosuppression (including anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia), sideroblastic anemia
Thrombocytopenia (platelets less than ,/mm) has been reported in  of patients (n=) using this drug for more than  days.
In another study (n=), thrombocytopenia (platelets less than  x []/L) occurred in  of patients and severe thrombocytopenia (platelets less than  x []/L) occurred in  using this drug for more than  days.
It has been suggested that the mechanism of linezolid-associated thrombocytopenia was immune-mediated.
In a study of patients with linezolid-associated thrombocytopenia, the use of vitamin B helped reverse the incidence of thrombocytopenia.
Vitamin B was most effective when used after this drug was held.
Once hematologic levels returned to baseline, coadministration of this drug with vitamin B resulted in stable hemoglobin levels for the remainder of therapy.
Another study compared this drug plus  mg vitamin B per day (n=) with this drug alone (n=) administered to patients with cancer.
This study concluded vitamin B was not beneficial in the prevention of leukopenia or thrombocytopenia, but found a possible trend towards the prevention of anemia.
Common ( to ): Elevated ALT, elevated AST, abnormal liver function testsUncommon ( to ): Elevated total bilirubin
Common ( to ): Elevated alkaline phosphatase, elevated LDH, elevated nonfasting glucoseUncommon ( to ): Hyponatremia, decreased nonfasting glucoseFrequency not reported: Hyperlactatemia, metabolic acidosis, hypokalemiaPostmarketing reports: Lactic acidosis, hypoglycemia (including symptomatic episodes)
At least  instances of lactic acidosis have been reported after use of this drug.
The time from the onset of therapy to the first sign of lactic acidosis ranged from  to  weeks.
This drug was stopped within  days of identifying lactic acidosis.
Two of the  patients died despite stopping therapy.
The lactate levels normalized in the  surviving patients after stopping this drug, but  of the patients had sequelae of blindness and disorientation.
Common ( to ): Elevated BUNUncommon ( to ): Elevated creatinine, renal failureFrequency not reported: Exacerbation of renal failure, abnormal renal function, acute interstitial nephritis
Common ( to ): Rash, pruritusUncommon ( to ): Urticaria, dermatitis, diaphoresisPostmarketing reports: Bullous skin disorders (such as those described as Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis), angioedema, alopecia
Common ( to ): Vaginal candidiasisUncommon ( to ): Vaginitis, polyuria, vulvovaginal disorder
Common ( to ): Fungal infection, candidiasis, fever, localized pain, decreased total protein, decreased albumin, decreased sodium, decreased calcium, increased/decreased potassium, increased/decreased bicarbonateUncommon ( to ): Chills, fatigue, increased thirst, increased sodium, increased calcium, increased/decreased chlorideFrequency not reported: Generalized edema
Partially irreversible bilateral optic neuritis has been reported after  weeks of therapy.
Several cases of peripheral and/or optic neuropathy have been reported.
The time from the onset of therapy to the first sign of optic neuropathy averaged  months (range:  to  months) in  patients with only optic neuropathy.
The time to discontinuation of this drug due to optic neuropathy averaged  months (range:  to  months) after therapy initiation.
This drug was stopped in  cases after the development of optic neuropathy; improvement or complete recovery was observed in all cases.
Uncommon ( to ): Blurred visionRare ( to ): Changes in visual field defectFrequency not reported: Partially irreversible bilateral optic neuritisPostmarketing reports: Optic neuropathy (sometimes progressing to loss of vision), optic neuritis, loss of vision, changes in visual acuity, changes in color vision
Common ( to ): HypertensionUncommon ( to ): Arrhythmia (tachycardia), transient ischemic attacks, phlebitis, thrombophlebitisFrequency not reported: Increased and decreased blood pressure, supraventricular tachycardia
Common ( to ): InsomniaFrequency not reported: Confusion
Common ( to ): Elevated creatine phosphokinase
Uncommon ( to ): Injection site pain
Postmarketing reports: Anaphylaxis
Frequency not reported: Interstitial pneumonia
intravenous solution
Chills
confusion
dizziness
fainting
fast heartbeat
fever
lightheadedness
pale skin
rapid, shallow breathing
rash
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
bluish lips or skin
body aches or pain
chest pain
congestion
constipation
convulsions
cough
decreased urine
difficult or labored breathing
dry mouth
dryness or soreness of the throat
ear congestion
headache
hoarseness
increased thirst
irregular heartbeat
loss of appetite
loss of voice
mood changes
muscle pain or cramps
nasal congestion
nausea or vomiting
not breathing
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
painful or difficult urination
pinpoint red spots on the skin
runny nose
severe stomach pain
shortness of breath
sneezing
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swollen glands
tender, swollen glands in the neck
tightness in the chest
trouble with swallowing
voice changes
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
wheezing
Abdominal or stomach discomfort
blindness
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
blurred vision
burning, numbness, tingling, or painful sensations
decreased appetite
decreased vision
eye pain
fast, shallow breathing
general feeling of discomfort
high fever
hives
itching
joint pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
muscle pain or cramping
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
sleepiness
swollen glands
unexplained bleeding or bruising
unsteadiness or awkwardness
weakness in the arms, hands, legs, or feet
bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site
change in taste
discoloration of the tongue
itching of the vagina or outside genitals
loose stools
pain during sexual intercourse
pain in the arms or legs
sleeplessness
sore mouth or tongue
thick, white curd-like vaginal discharge without odor or with mild odor
trouble sleeping
Discoloration of the tooth