Chronic Weight Management:Very common ( or more): Nausea , diarrhea , constipation , vomiting , Common ( to ): Dyspepsia, abdominal pain, upper abdominal pain, gastroesophageal reflux disease, abdominal distension, eructation, flatulence, dry mouth, gastroenteritis, viral gastroenteritis, increased lipase Uncommon ( to ): Acute pancreatitis, acute gallbladder diseaseType  Diabetes Mellitus:Very common ( or more): Nausea (up to ), diarrhea (up to ), vomiting (up to )Common ( to ): Constipation, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, gastritis, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, toothacheRare (less than ): Intestinal obstructionPostmarketing reports: Acute hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis, including fatalities
Chronic Weight Management: The percentage of patients reporting nausea declined as treatment continued.
Most gastrointestinal events were mild or moderate and did not lead to discontinuation.
Acute pancreatitis occurred in  (/) of liraglutide-treated patients and  (/) of placebo patients in clinical trials.
Three additional cases occurred in liraglutide-treated patients,  in patients who prematurely withdrew from the trial and  during an off-treatment follow-up period.
Acute gallbladder disease was reported more frequently in liraglutide-treated patients ( versus ) during clinical trials.
Substantial or rapid weight loss can increase the risk of cholelithiasis, but even after accounting for the degree of weight loss, the incidence of acute gallbladder disease was greater in liraglutide-treated patients.
Type  Diabetes MellitusThere have been postmarketing reports of acute hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis, including fatalities.
During clinical trials,  cases of pancreatitis were received among liraglutide treated patients,  acute and  chronic compared with  case in the comparator (glimepiride) group.
Some patients had other risk factors for pancreatitis, such as a history of cholelithiasis or alcohol abuse.
Chronic Weight Management:Very common ( or more): Hypoglycemia in type  diabetes Common ( to ): Decreased appetiteType  Diabetes Mellitus:Very common ( or more): Hypoglycemia (when used in combination with a sulfonylurea)Common ( to ): Hypoglycemia, anorexia, decreased appetiteUncommon ( to ): DehydrationPostmarketing reports: Dehydration resulting from nausea, vomiting and diarrhea
Chronic Weight Management:In patients with type  diabetes mellitus receiving this drug for chronic weight management, severe hypoglycemia occurred in  (/) of liraglutide-treated patients, each of these patients was also receiving a sulfonylurea.
Among all patients receiving this drug in combination with a sulfonylurea, symptomatic hypoglycemia occurred in  (/) of patients.
The dose of sulfonylurea had been reduced by  at the start of the trial.
Among patients not taking a sulfonylurea, symptomatic hypoglycemia occurred in  (/) of patients.
Type  Diabetes Mellitus:Major episodes of hypoglycemia have not been reported in clinical trials in which liraglutide was used as monotherapy, however, when used in combination with a sulfonylurea, hypoglycemia was very commonly reported.
Very common ( or more): Headache (up to )Common ( to ): DizzinessFrequency not reported: dysgeusia
Type  Diabetes Mellitus: Common ( to ): Nasopharyngitis, bronchitis, upper respiratory infection
The most commonly reported adverse events reported during chronic weight management clinical trials included nausea, hypoglycemia, diarrhea, constipation, vomiting, headache, decreased appetite, dyspepsia, fatigue, dizziness, abdominal pain, and increased lipase.
The most commonly reported adverse events reported during type  diabetes mellitus clinical trials included headache, nausea, diarrhea, and anti-liraglutide antibody formation.
Chronic Weight Management:Very common ( or more): Increases in mean resting heart rateCommon ( to ): HypotensionUncommon ( to ): Cardiac conduction disorder, tachycardiaType  Diabetes Mellitus:Common ( to ): Increased heart rate
Chronic Weight Management:Cardiac conduction disorders were reported as first degree atrioventricular block, right bundle branch block, or left bundle branch block.
Increases in mean resting heart rate of  to  beats per minute (bpm) were observed in clinical trials.
Increases of  and  bpm at  consecutive visits were  and  in liraglutide-treated patients versus  and  in the placebo group, respectively.
Resting heart rate exceeding  bpm was recorded for  of liraglutide-treated patients versus  of placebo patients.
Tachycardia was reported in  of liraglutide-treated patients compared with  of placebo patients.
Monitoring heart rate over -hours found that liraglutide treatment was associated with a  to  bpm higher heart rate than placebo.
The clinical significance of this is unknown.
Common ( to ): Urinary tract infection
Common ( to ): Injection site erythema, injection site reaction
The most common injection site reactions were erythema, pruritus, and rash at the injection site.
Frequency not reported: Development of anti-liraglutide antibodies
Uncommon ( to ): UrticariaPostmarketing reports: Serious hypersensitivity reactions (  anaphylactic reactions and angioedema)
While this drug has not been found to be directly nephrotoxic in animal studies or clinical trials, postmarketing reports of acute renal failure and worsening of chronic renal failure sometimes requiring dialysis have been received.
A majority of reports occurred in patients who had experienced nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or dehydration.
Type  Diabetes Mellitus: Uncommon ( to ): Renal impairment, acute renal failurePostmarketing reports: Acute renal failure and worsening of chronic renal failure, sometimes requiring dialysis, increased serum creatinine
Common ( to ): RashUncommon ( to ): Urticaria, pruritus
Common ( to ): Increased blood calcitonin levelsUncommon ( to ): Goiter
Common ( to ): FatigueUncommon ( to ): Asthenia, malaise
Chronic Weight Management:Fatigue and asthenia were most commonly reported within the first  weeks and were often co-reported with gastrointestinal events.
Chronic Weight Management:In clinical trials,  (/) patients receiving liraglutide reported suicidal ideation and  attempted suicide.
There were no reports in patients receiving placebo.
Chronic Weight Management:Common ( to ): Insomnia, anxietyUncommon ( to ): Suicidal ideationVery rare (less than ): Suicide attempt
Chronic Weight Management:Uncommon ( to ): ALT increased Frequency not reported: AST increasedType  Diabetes Mellitus:Postmarketing reports: Elevations of liver enzymes, hyperbilirubinemia, cholestasis, hepatitis
Chronic Weight Management:Breast Cancer: During clinical trials,  (/) of liraglutide-treated patients were diagnosed with breast cancer compared with  (/) of placebo patients.
There were too few cases to determine if these were related to drug treatment and insufficient data to determine whether this drug had an effect on preexisting breast neoplasia.
Papillary Thyroid Cancer: During clinical trials,  (/) of the liraglutide-treated patients were diagnosed with papillary thyroid carcinoma compared with no cases in  placebo patients.
Colorectal Neoplasms: During clinical trials,  (/) of the liraglutide-treated patients had benign colorectal neoplasms compared with  (/) of placebo patients.
Malignant colorectal carcinoma was diagnosed in  liraglutide-treated patients.
Type  Diabetes Mellitus: In clinical trials,  cases of thyroid C-cell hyperplasia were reported among liraglutide-treated patients and  cases in the comparator-treated group ( vs  case per  patient-years).
Medullary thyroid carcinoma was diagnosed in  patient in the comparator group who had pretreatment serum calcitonin concentrations greater than  ng/L suggesting preexisting disease.
The study required protocol-specified serum calcitonin measurements.
All cases of thyroid C-cell hyperplasia were diagnosed after thyroidectomy which was done due to abnormal calcitonin levels.
Of the  patients with thyroid C-cell hyperplasia,  had elevated calcitonin concentrations at baseline and throughout the trial.
One patient in both the liraglutide-treated group and the comparator group developed elevated calcitonin concentrations while on treatment.
Chronic Weight Management:Uncommon ( to ): Benign colorectal neoplasms, papillary thyroid cancer, breast cancer, malignant colorectal carcinomaType  Diabetes Mellitus: Uncommon ( to ): Thyroid neoplasms Frequency not reported: Thyroid C-cell hyperplasiaPostmarketing reports: Medullary Thyroid Cancer
Bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
cough or hoarseness
diarrhea
difficult, burning, or painful urination
fever or chills
frequent urge to urinate
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
joint pain
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
muscle aches and pains
nausea
runny nose
shivering
sore throat
sweating
trouble sleeping
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Blurred vision
dizziness
nervousness
pounding in the ears
slow or fast heartbeat
Anxiety
cold sweats
coma
confusion
cool, pale skin
depression
hives or welts, itching, or skin rash
increased hunger
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
nightmares
redness of the skin
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
Agitation
clay-colored stools
confusion
dark urine
decreased urine output
depression
difficulty with swallowing
hostility
irritability
lethargy
muscle twitching
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rapid weight gain
stupor
swelling of the face, ankles, or hands
tightness in the chest
unpleasant breath odor
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin
Abdominal or stomach cramps, discomfort, or pain
acid or sour stomach
back pain
belching
body aches or pain
constipation
decreased appetite
heartburn
indigestion
loss of voice
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
sneezing
stuffy nose
swollen mouth and tongue
unpleasant taste
urge to have bowel movement
weight loss
Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site