Loracarbef is generally well tolerated.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , and anorexia.
The incidence of side effects increases with higher doses.
Pseudomembranous colitis has been reported in patients treated with beta-lactam antibiotics.
Nervous system side effects have included headache , somnolence, insomnia, and dizziness.
Some beta-lactam antibiotics have been associated with seizures in renally impaired patients.
Hypersensitivity reactions have included rash , urticaria, pruritus, and erythema multiforme.
Anaphylaxis, serum-sickness-like reactions, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome have been reported rarely.
Beta-lactam antibiotics have been associated with toxic epidermal necrolysis,
Respiratory side effects have included rhinitis .
Hematologic side effects have included transient thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, and eosinophilia.
Beta-lactam antibiotics as a class have been associated with agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, hemolytic anemia, hemorrhage, positive direct Coombs' test, pancytopenia, neutropenia, and prolonged prothrombin time.
Renal side effects have included transient elevations in serum creatinine and BUN.
Some beta-lactam antibiotics have been associated with toxic nephropathy.
Hepatic side effects have included transient elevations in AST (SGOT), ALT (SGPT), and alkaline phosphatase.
Hepatic dysfunction including cholestasis with or without jaundice has been rarely reported.
Some beta-lactam antibiotics have been associated with LDH elevations.
A -year-old man developed itching and jaundice, pale stools, and right upper quadrant pain two weeks after completion of a four week course of loracarbef for pneumonia.
Bilirubin, AST, ALT, alkaline phosphatase levels were elevated.
Liver biopsy showed widening of portal areas, pericellular fibrosis, and irregular fibrous bands in the parenchyma.
Swollen hepatocytes and cholestasis in the cytoplasma and canaliculi were observed.
Lab values returned to normal after  weeks.
Cardiovascular side effects have included vasodilatation.
Genitourinary side effects have included vaginitis  and vaginal moniliasis .
Itching
skin rash
Diarrhea
loss of appetite
nausea and vomiting
stomach pain
Dizziness
drowsiness
headache
itching or discharge from the vagina
nervousness
trouble in sleeping