Commonly reported side effects of lovastatin include: increased creatine phosphokinase and increased serum transaminases.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Persistent elevations in liver function tests to three times normal values have been reported in up to 2% of patients on lovastatin in clinical trials.
Overall, 1.
5% of patients were withdrawn from study due to elevations in serum transaminases.
While most patients remained asymptomatic with these elevations, cases of cholestatic jaundice and hepatitis have been reported.
Liver function tests should be closely monitored.
Lovastatin should be discontinued in patients with persistent, significant elevations (three times the upper limit of normal) in liver function parameters.
Common (1% to 10%): Elevations in liver function testsFrequency not reported: Hepatitis (including chronic active hepatitis), cholestatic jaundice, fatty change in the liver, cirrhosis, fulminant hepatic necrosis
Common (1% to 10%): Flatulence, abdominal pain, diarrhea, constipation, nauseaFrequency not reported: Dyspepsia, heartburn, anorexia, vomitingPostmarketing reports: Abdominal discomfort
Gastrointestinal side effects are among the most common complaints in patients on lovastatin.
These effects tend to be mild and transient in nature and will often dissipate with continued therapy.
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) have been associated with rare cases of severe myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, accompanied by increases in creatine kinase, myoglobinuria, proteinuria, and renal failure.
These conditions appear to be dose related, usually occurring with doses greater than 30 mg per day.
The incidence and severity of myopathy may be increased by concomitant administration of lovastatin with drugs that can cause myopathy when given alone, such as gemfibrozil and other fibrates, niacin, and potent inhibitors of CYP450 3A4 (i.
e.
, cyclosporine, antifungal azoles, macrolide antibiotics, large amounts of grapefruit juice).
Other variables associated with an increased risk of statin-induced myopathy include, advanced age, small body stature, female gender, renal and/or hepatic dysfunction, perioperative periods, hypothyroidism, diabetes mellitus, and alcoholism.
Milder forms of myotoxicity (i.
e.
, myalgia) are commonly reported and occur in approximately 5% to 7% of patients taking a statin drug.
Patients should be instructed to report promptly symptoms of muscle pain, weakness, or tenderness.
If such symptoms develop, creatine kinase should be measured, and if markedly elevated, lovastatin should be discontinued.
The value of routine monitoring of creatine kinase is not known.
In some studies up to 11% of patients experienced elevations in creatine kinase while on lovastatin.
In most cases these elevations were mild, transient, and not associated with clinical symptoms.
Itraconazole used concomitantly with lovastatin has led to one reported case of severe rhabdomyolysis in a 63-year-old woman.
Caution should be exercised when HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors and azole antifungals are prescribed concurrently.
Exposure to HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is associated with a decreased risk of bone fractures in persons older than 50.
Frequency not reported: Elevations in creatine kinase, muscle cramps, myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, arthralgia, myalgia, tendon rupture, dermatomyositis
Frequency not reported: Hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), leukopenia (These effects may be manifestations of a hypersensitivity reaction)
Common (1% to 10%): Headache, dizzinessFrequency not reported: Cranial nerve dysfunction, tremor, vertigo, memory loss, drowsiness, weight loss, decline in cognitive function, paresthesias, peripheral neuropathy, peripheral nerve palsyPostmarketing reports: Asthenia, fatigue, malaise, hypoesthesia, insomnia
Frequency not reported: Acute renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis
Frequency not reported: Rash, pruritus, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, photosensitivity, purpura, alopecia (These effects may be manifestations of a hypersensitivity reaction)
Frequency not reported: Hypospermia, gynecomastia, thyroid dysfunction, acid maltase deficiency (the genetic disorder also referred to as Pompe's Disease), pancreatitis
Frequency not reported: Anaphylaxis, angioedema, lupus erythematous-like syndrome, polymyalgia rheumatic, dermatomyositis, vasculitis, purpura, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, hemolytic anemia, positive ANA, ESR increase, eosinophilia, arthritis, arthralgia, urticaria, asthenia, photosensitivity, fever (including severe hyperthermia), chills, flushing, malaise, dyspnea, toxic epidermal necrolysis
Frequency not reported: Lupus-like syndrome with positive ANA and elevated ESR, polymyalgia rheumatica, vasculitis
Frequency not reported: Progression of cataracts, ophthalmoplegia
Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Hyperkalemia
Frequency not reported: Decreased libido, anxiety, insomnia, depression, suicidal thoughts, delusions, paranoia, agitation, nightmares
Halkin, et al report a case in which use of both lovastatin and pravastatin on different occasions in the same patient led to reversible impotence.
The impotence resolved within 2 weeks after discontinuation of the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor.
Frequency not reported: Erectile dysfunction, impotence, testicular pain
Frequency not reported: Tumor growth, hepatocellular carcinomas and adenomas.
pulmonary adenomas (all in rodents)
Postmarketing reports: Interstitial lung disease
Bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
chest tightness
cough
dark-colored urine
difficult, burning, or painful urination
difficulty with moving
fever
frequent urge to urinate
headache
joint pain
lower back or side pain
muscle aching, cramps, spasms, or stiffness
muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
stuffy or runny nose
swollen joints
trouble with breathing
unusual tiredness or weakness
Acid or sour stomach
belching
bloated or full feeling
blurred vision
diarrhea
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
dizziness
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
heartburn
indigestion
lack or loss of strength
nausea
passing gas
rash
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain