If any of the following side effects occur while taking indapamide, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Most adverse side effects are mild and transient.
Dermatologic reactions, such as rashes, occur in less than  of patients, and comprise up to  of all adverse drug reactions associated with indapamide (the active ingredient contained in Lozol) 
Metabolic abnormalities are common, but are rarely clinically significant.
Hypokalemia occurs in  of patients, although clinically relevant hypokalemia is reported in only  and  of patients receiving  and  mg/day, respectively.
Hyponatremia, hyperglycemia, and hyperuricemia are reported in  to  of patients but are rarely clinically relevant.
Unlike the thiazides, indapamide (the active ingredient contained in Lozol) has little or no adverse effect on the lipid profile.
Severe cases of hyponatremia, accompanied by hypokalemia have been reported with recommended doses of indapamide in elderly females.
Renal side effects are unusual, consisting primarily of azotemia.
A case of interstitial nephritis and an urticarial rash associated with indapamide has been reported.
Gastrointestinal side effects include dyspepsia, constipation, diarrhea, flatulence, and dry mouth in less than  of patients.
Nervous system side effects include dizziness, lightheadedness, headache, and fatigue in  of patients.
Cardiovascular side effects are usually limited to postural hypotension.
Indapamide (the active ingredient contained in Lozol) does not affect the heart rate.
Musculoskeletal cramps are reported in about  of patients.
A single case of skeletal muscle damage has been associated with indapamide (the active ingredient contained in Lozol) 
A -year-old woman with a history of psychiatric problems and reflux esophagitis developed chest pain, finger numbness, sweating, and nausea while gardening.
Her medications included indapamide, trifluoperazine, oxazepam, and ranitidine.
Myocardial infarction was definitively ruled out by ECG and CPK isoenzyme analysis.
Interesting laboratory values included a reduced serum sodium ( mmol/L), elevated LDH and AST enzymes, and elevated CPK-MM isoenzymes.
There was no history of muscular trauma, and thyroid function tests were normal.
The hyponatremia and elevated CPK-MM fractions fell precipitously upon hydration with normal saline.
A definite causal link between indapamide and rhabdomyolysis could not be made, but thiazide diuretics have been previously implicated in some cases of hypokalemia with subsequent muscle damage.
Genitourinary side effects generally reflect the activity of the drug, with less than  of patients reporting polyuria and nocturia.
Decreased sexual libido is rare, with up to  of patients reporting no change and most of the remaining  reporting improvement of sexual libido during indapamide therapy.
A case of reversible hepatitis associated with indapamide (the active ingredient contained in Lozol) has been reported.
Hepatic side effects are rare, at least one case of hepatitis has been reported.
Hypersensitivity reactions occur in less than  of patients.
Cases of severe reactions including toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome have been reported.
Patients with a sulfa allergy may react to indapamide (the active ingredient contained in Lozol) 
Endocrine side effects include at least one case of indapamide-induced hyperparathyroidism.
In one study, indapamide (the active ingredient contained in Lozol) significantly reduced parathyroid hormone levels in all patients.
Hematologic side effects are rare, but have included at least one case of mild thrombocytopenia and mucosal bleeding from the tongue.
Bleeding stopped promptly and platelet counts returned to normal following discontinuation of indapamide (the active ingredient contained in Lozol) 
Dryness of mouth
increased thirst
irregular heartbeat
mood or mental changes
muscle cramps or pain
nausea or vomiting
unusual tiredness or weakness 
weak pulse
Skin rash, itching, or hives
Diarrhea
dizziness or lightheadedness, especially when getting up from a lying or sitting position
headache
loss of appetite
trouble in sleeping
stomach upset