Common side effects of Lumigan include: increased growth in number of eyelashes.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Very common (10% or more): Conjunctival hyperemia, ocular pruritus, growth of eyelashesCommon (1% to 10%): Superficial punctate keratitis, corneal erosion, ocular burning, ocular irritation, allergic conjunctivitis, blepharitis, worsening of visual acuity, asthenopia, conjunctival edema, foreign body sensation, ocular dryness, eye pain, photophobia, tearing, eye discharge, visual disturbance/blurred vision, increased iris pigmentation, eyelash darkening, eyelid erythema, eyelid pruritusUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Retinal hemorrhage, uveitis, cystoid macular edema, iritis, blepharospasm, eyelid retraction, periorbital erythema, eyelid edemaVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Corneal calcification (in association with the use of phosphate containing eye drops in some patients with significantly damaged corneas)Frequency not reported: EnophthalmosPostmarketing reports: Increased lacrimation, skin discoloration (periorbital)
Common (1% to 10%): Pigmentation of periocular skinUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): HirsutismFrequency not reported: Abnormal hair growthPostmarketing reports: Trichorrhexis, madarosis
Frequency not reported: Asthma, asthma exacerbation, COPD exacerbation, dyspnea, upper respiratory tract infections, cold
Common (1% to 10%): HeadacheUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Dizziness, vertigo
Common (1% to 10%): Abnormal liver function test
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Asthenia
Common (1% to 10%): Hypertension
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Nausea
The most frequently reported adverse reaction was conjunctival hyperemia.
Postmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Depression
Blindness
bloody eye
blurred or decreased vision
change in color vision
color changes in the skin around the eyes
difficulty seeing at night
disturbed color perception
double vision
dry eyes
eye color changes
fever or chills
halos around lights
lack or loss of strength
loss of vision
night blindness
overbright appearance of lights
redness, burning, dry, or itching eyes
redness, pain, swelling of the eye, eyelid, or inner lining of the eyelid
tunnel vision
Body aches or pain
cough
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
headache
loss of voice
nasal congestion
redness of the white part of eyes or inside of the eyelids
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness
Darkening of the eyelashes
eye discharge or excessive tearing
eye strain
feeling of having something in the eye
increase in hair growth
increased sensitivity of the eyes to sunlight