If any of the following side effects occur while taking atovaquone / proguanil, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
In general, side effects associated with the use of atovaquone-proguanil have been mild.
Side effects are more pronounced and occur more frequently when higher doses are used in the treatment of malaria than with lower prophylactic doses.
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus (2%).
Cutaneous reactions ranging from rash, photosensitivity, and urticaria have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included abdominal pain (5% to 17%), nausea (3% to 12%), vomiting (1% to 12%), diarrhea (4% to 8%), mouth ulcers (6%), anorexia (5%), dyspepsia (2%), and gastritis (2%).
GI upset has also been reported.
Stomatitis has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Hepatic side effects have included transient increases in liver function tests.
These increases have not required discontinuation of therapy.
Rare cases of hepatitis, cholestasis, and a single case of hepatic failure have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included asthenia (8%), myalgia (7%), and back pain (4%).
Nervous system side effects have included headache (4% to 17%), dizziness (2% to 5%), vertigo (2%), and visual disturbances (2%).
Rare cases of seizures and psychotic events (such as hallucinations) have been reported during postmarketing experience.
However, a causal relationship has not been established.
Respiratory side effects have rarely included cough (4%).
Hypersensitivity side effects have included rare cases of anaphylaxis.
Rare cases of erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, vasculitis, and angioedema have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Psychiatric side effects including strange or vivid dreams (7%), insomnia (3%), anxiety (less than 1%), and depression (less than 1%) have been reported.
Hematologic side effects including neutropenia, anemia (rarely), and pancytopenia in patients with severe renal impairment treated with proguanil have been reported during the postmarketing experience.
Other side effects have included flu-like symptoms (4%) and fever (3%).
Blistering, peeling, loosening of skin
chills
convulsions
difficulty swallowing
fast heartbeat
hives or welts
increased sensitivity of skin to sunlight
itching, redness or other discoloration of skin
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, sex organs
loss of bladder control
muscle spasm or jerking of all extremities
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue 
rash
red, irritated eyes 
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
severe mental changes
severe sunburn 
shortness of breath
skin rash
sores, ulcers or white spots in mouth or on lips
sudden loss of consciousness
tightness in chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
wheezing
Abdominal pain
back pain
coughing
diarrhea
dreams
fever
headache 
itching skin 
lack of or loss of strength
nausea
muscle pain
sore throat
sores in mouth
sneezing
vomiting
Acid or sour stomach
belching
blurred or loss of vision
disturbed color perception
dizziness
double vision
flu like symptoms
halos around lights
heartburn
indigestion
loss of appetite
night blindness
overbright appearance of lights 
sleeplessness
stomach discomfort, upset or pain
trouble sleeping
tunnel vision
unable to sleep
weight loss
Discouragement
fear
feeling sad or empty
irritability
lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
nervousness
trouble concentrating