If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking pirbuterol, get emergency help immediately:
Cardiovascular side effects have included palpitations and peripheral vasodilation, commonly resulting in reflex tachycardia.
Blood pressure may increase or decrease.
Higher doses may rarely aggravate angina, myocardial ischemia, or cause atrial or ventricular arrhythmias.
Although most studies have not revealed a significant effect of pirbuterol on blood pressure or heart rate, anecdotally significant increases have been noted.
Aggravation of angina may be due to tachycardia produced by pirbuterol.
Supraventricular premature beats and ventricular tachycardia have also been reported.
Higher doses of pirbuterol should be used with caution in patients with cardiac disease, arrhythmias, or hypertension.
All of these effects are dose-related and lower doses may be tolerated.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included tremors, especially at higher doses.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, dry mouth, and diarrhea.
Metabolic side effects have included hypokalemia and, less commonly, hyperglycemia.
Nervous system side effects have included nervousness, dizziness, insomnia, and headache.
Respiratory side effects have included cough.
Rare instances of paradoxical bronchoconstriction have been associated with the use of pirbuterol (the active ingredient contained in Maxair) 
Shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
Fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
Blurred vision
bruising
chest pain
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly
fainting
feeling of warmth
numbness in the arms or legs
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
sweating
swelling
unusual tiredness or weakness
Arm, back, or jaw pain
chest tightness or heaviness
confusion
convulsions
decreased urine
dry mouth
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
increased thirst
loss of appetite
mood changes
muscle pain or cramps
nausea or vomiting
nervousness
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
pounding in the ears
shortness of breath
sleeplessness
slow or fast heartbeat
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep
Cough
dizziness
Abdominal or stomach cramps
anxiety
bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
change in taste
depression
hair loss
increase in body movements
itching skin
redness, swelling, or soreness of the tongue
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
thinning of the hair
weakness
weight gain
weight loss