Get emergency medical help if you have signs of an allergic reaction:  hives; difficult breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
Stop using esterified estrogens (the active ingredient contained in Menest) and call your doctor at once if you have:
signs of a stroke--sudden numbness or weakness (especially on one side of the body), sudden severe headache, slurred speech, problems with vision or balance;
signs of a blood clot in the lung--chest pain, sudden cough, wheezing, rapid breathing, coughing up blood;
signs of a blood clot in your leg--pain, swelling, warmth, or redness in one or both legs;
heart attack symptoms--chest pain or pressure, pain spreading to your jaw or shoulder, nausea, sweating;
liver problems--severe stomach pain, fever, tired feeling, loss of appetite, dark urine, clay-colored stools, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes);
high levels of calcium in your blood--nausea, vomiting, constipation, increased thirst or urination, muscle weakness, bone pain, confusion, lack of energy, or tired feeling;
a change in the pattern or severity of migraine headaches;
swelling in your hands, ankles, or feet;
a breast lump; or
severe skin reaction--fever, sore throat, swelling in your face or tongue, burning in your eyes, skin pain followed by a red or purple skin rash that spreads (especially in the face or upper body) and causes blistering and peeling.
Common side effects may include:
light vaginal bleeding or spotting;
breast pain or tenderness;
nausea, vomiting, bloating;
skin color changes, increased facial hair, thinning scalp hair;
headache, dizziness, mood changes, decreased sex drive;
vaginal itching or discharge, very light menstrual periods; or
problems with contact lenses.
This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects.
Rare cases of oral pigmentation and ischemic colitis have been reported.
Gastrointestinal symptoms of nausea and vomiting have been the most frequently reported adverse effects.
Some studies have demonstrated a  to  fold increase in gallbladder disease in postmenopausal women taking estrogen therapy.
Oncologic side effects associated with unopposed estrogen therapy have included an increased risk of endometrial carcinoma in patients with an intact uterus and less persuasively, an increased risk of breast cancer.
A number of studies have suggested that the risk of endometrial carcinoma is removed (or delayed) by the administration of progestins in combination with estrogen therapy.
The increased risk of breast cancer due to use of estrogens is controversial.
Several studies have suggested that long-term estrogen therapy may be associated with a slightly increased risk of breast cancer.
Meta analysis of  studies (epidemiological data) supports a modest risk increase associated with long-term hormone replacement therapy (HRT).
One study of Swedish women has reported that a  increase in the relative risk of breast cancer may occur and that the risk is related to increasing duration of estrogen therapy.
In that study, women with more than nine years of estrogen use had a  greater relative risk of breast cancer than controls.
That study, however, examined use of a variety of estrogen preparations of which estradiol was the most frequently prescribed.
In addition, women who took progestins did not demonstrate a decreased risk of breast cancer and may even have been at higher risk.
The Toronto Breast Cancer Study has reported that women who receive unopposed conjugated estrogens for less than  years are not at increased risk of breast cancer.
In that study, an increase in the risk of breast cancer for women who used conjugated estrogens for more than  years was not ruled out.
The Case-Control Surveillance Study has reported that there is "no evidence that the use of unopposed conjugated estrogens increases the risk of breast cancer, even after long duration of use or long latent intervals, but the possibility of a modest increase (less than a doubling) could not be excluded.
"Follow-up to the Nurses' Health Study of  concluded, however, that there is an increased risk of breast cancer in women taking estrogen replacement therapy and that the risk is not reduced by concurrent use of progestins.
(In that study, greater risk was associated with advanced age and prolonged duration of hormonal therapy.
)A study of middle-aged women in the Puget Sound area concluded that "on the whole, the use of estrogen with progestin HRT [hormone replacement therapy] does not appear to be associated with an increased risk of breast cancer in middle-aged women.
"A prospective cohort study ( years) of  women by Gapstur et al evaluated the histology of the breast cancer in women who ever used HRT.
No association was found between duration of ever HRT use and the incidence of ductal carcinoma in situ or invasive ductal/lobular carcinoma.
The duration of ever HRT use was associated with risk of invasive carcinoma with a favorable prognosis (relative risk (RR) = ,  confidence interval (CI),  to  for HRT use less than or equal to yrs and RR = , CI,  to  for HRT use > yrs, p = ).
The relative risks of invasive carcinoma with a favorable prognosis for current users (adjusted for age and other risk factors) was , CI,  to  for less than or equal to yrs and , CI,  to  for > yrs.
Risk of invasive ductal or lobular carcinoma for current users less than or equal to yrs was RR = , CI,  to .
The effect of estrogen therapy in reducing cardiovascular risk is thought to be related to beneficial alterations in lipid profiles in treated women.
The reported effects of estrogens on cardiovascular activity are variable.
Alterations in lipid profiles in treated women are thought to be responsible for reducing cardiovascular risks.
Data suggest estrogen use may increase blood pressure, particularly in patients receiving high doses, decrease blood pressure, or result in no change.
In addition, noncontraceptive use of estrogens in young women (particularly smokers) may substantially increase the risk of nonfatal myocardial infarction.
Other studies have concluded that no increased risk of myocardial infarction exists.
Cardiovascular risks are thought to be reduced with estrogen therapy.
Studies suggest that unopposed estrogen therapy may decrease the risk of coronary heart disease by as much as .
Combination therapy with a progestin may also decrease coronary risk.
However, the extent of risk reduction with combination therapy has not been determined.
Data are available that suggest combination therapy does not reduce the overall rate of coronary heart disease in postmenopausal women with established coronary disease.
While HDL, LDL and total cholesterol levels are generally "improved" during estrogen therapy, triglyceride levels may be significantly increased.
Some dramatic elevations in triglyceride levels and to a lesser extent, cholesterol levels, have been reported.
Metabolic side effects generally have been favorable alterations in plasma lipid profiles.
Specifically, increased HDL and decreased cholesterol and LDL levels have occurred.
Estrogen therapy may lead to an increase in serum triglyceride levels resulting in pancreatitis in patients with familial lipoprotein metabolic defects.
Hypercalcemia has occurred in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases.
Aggravation of porphyria has been reported.
Estrogens may cause some degree of fluid retention and mastodynia.
Genitourinary side effects may include abnormal uterine bleeding which must be carefully distinguished from bleeding related to endometrial carcinoma.
In addition, estrogens may increase the size of preexisting uterine leiomyomata.
Several cases of pseudoincontinence (excessive vaginal discharge perceived by patients as urinary incontinence) have been reported in premenopausal who have undergone hysterectomy-oophorectomy and received post-operative estrogens.
Hematologic side effects of hypercoagulability have been reported, although the clinical significance of such hypercoagulability in postmenopausal women taking estrogens has not been determined.
Many of the reports of hepatic tumors occurred in women taking long-term oral contraceptives.
However, some tumors have been reported in women taking isolated estrogen therapy.
Hepatic side effects have included rare cases of focal nodular hyperplasia, liver cell adenomas, hepatic hemangiomas and well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinomas.
Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis have been reported in association with estrogens and the dyes contained in some conjugated estrogen formulations.
Nervous system side effects associated with estrogen therapy have included migraine, dizziness, and mental depression.
A case of chorea has been reported in association with conjugated estrogen therapy.
Alterations in libido have occurred.
Ocular side effects of estrogen therapy have included alterations in corneal curvature and contact lens discomfort.
Some investigators have suggested that estrogen therapy may increase the risk of "fibrocystic breast disease" by as much as two-fold.
Psychiatric effects of estrogen use have included case reports of rapid mood cycling in patients with severe depression.
Dermatologic effects have included chloasma or melasma.
Resolution has not occurred in all cases following discontinuation of estrogen therapy.
Scalp hair loss, hirsutism, erythema nodosum, and hemorrhagic eruptions have occurred.
Endocrine effects of estrogen use have included decreased fasting plasma glucose.
Estrogen use may result in increased levels of thyroxin-binding globulin leading to increased total thyroid serum levels and decreased resin uptake of T  Free thyroid hormone levels have remained unchanged.
signs of a stroke--sudden numbness or weakness (especially on one side of the body), sudden severe headache, slurred speech, problems with vision or balance;
signs of a blood clot in the lung--chest pain, sudden cough, wheezing, rapid breathing, coughing up blood;
signs of a blood clot in your leg--pain, swelling, warmth, or redness in one or both legs;
heart attack symptoms--chest pain or pressure, pain spreading to your jaw or shoulder, nausea, sweating;
liver problems--severe stomach pain, fever, tired feeling, loss of appetite, dark urine, clay-colored stools, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes);
high levels of calcium in your blood--nausea, vomiting, constipation, increased thirst or urination, muscle weakness, bone pain, confusion, lack of energy, or tired feeling;
a change in the pattern or severity of migraine headaches;
swelling in your hands, ankles, or feet;
a breast lump; or
severe skin reaction--fever, sore throat, swelling in your face or tongue, burning in your eyes, skin pain followed by a red or purple skin rash that spreads (especially in the face or upper body) and causes blistering and peeling.
light vaginal bleeding or spotting;
breast pain or tenderness;
nausea, vomiting, bloating;
skin color changes, increased facial hair, thinning scalp hair;
headache, dizziness, mood changes, decreased sex drive;
vaginal itching or discharge, very light menstrual periods; or
problems with contact lenses.