In PCP prevention studies comparing atovaquone (the active ingredient contained in Mepron) to inhaled pentamidine,  to  of patients discontinued atovaquone and  discontinued pentamidine due to adverse events.
Rash , diarrhea , and nausea  were the most common reasons for discontinuing atovaquone, while bronchospasm  was the most common reason for discontinuing pentamidine.
In studies comparing atovaquone to dapsone, treatment-limiting hypersensitivity reactions were more frequent in the dapsone group  and treatment-limiting gastrointestinal side effects were more common in the atovaquone group (up to ).
In PCP treatment studies,  of patients discontinued atovaquone due to side effects, compared to  of patients receiving sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim.
The most common reason for discontinuation in both treatment groups was rash (atovaquone, ; sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim, ).
In studies comparing intravenous pentamidine and atovaquone,  of patients in the atovaquone group and  of patients in the pentamidine group reported side effects.
Treatment was discontinued in  of the atovaquone patients and  of the pentamidine patients due to adverse events; the most common reasons were rash  in the atovaquone group and hypoglycemia  and vomiting  in the pentamidine group.
Gastrointestinal side effects are among the most common and have included nausea (up to ), diarrhea (up to ), vomiting (up to ), abdominal pain (up to ), oral monilia (up to ), taste perversion , and constipation .
The incidence of side effects was higher in patients in PCP treatment studies than in prevention studies.
Seven percent of patients experience anorexia and  of patients experience dyspepsia, although these are difficult to attribute to the drug due to the serious underlying diseases in the patients who receive atovaquone (the active ingredient contained in Mepron)   Hyperamylasemia has been reported in  of patients.
Pancreatitis has also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Dermatologic side effects have included rash (up to ), pruritus (greater than or equal to ), exfoliative dermatitis, photosensitivity, and toxic epidermal necrolysis.
Erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and skin desquamation have been reported during postmarketing experience in patients receiving multiple drug treatment including atovaquone (the active ingredient contained in Mepron) 
Hepatic side effects have included elevated ALT (greater than  times ULN, ), elevated AST (greater than  times ULN, ), elevated alkaline phosphatase (greater than  times ULN, up to ), and increased amylase (greater than  times ULN, up to ) in patients being treated for PCP.
Therapy was discontinued in  of patients receiving atovaquone (the active ingredient contained in Mepron) due to ALT/AST elevations, compared to  of patients being treated with sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim.
Hepatomegaly has also been reported.
Rarely, hepatitis and at least one case of fatal liver failure have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Hematologic side effects have included anemia (up to ) and neutropenia (up to ), but may be due to underlying disease.
Methemoglobinemia and thrombocytopenia have also been reported.
Metabolic side effects have included hyponatremia (up to ), hyperglycemia , and hypoglycemia .
Other side effects have included fever (up to ), asthenia (up to ), flu syndrome (greater than or equal to ), pain (greater than or equal to ), infection (up to ), sweating (greater than or equal to ), and malaise, but some may be due to underlying disease.
Fatigue, night sweats, and burning sensation of the tongue have also been reported.
Respiratory side effects have included dyspnea (up to ), increased cough (up to ), rhinitis (up to ), sinusitis (greater than or equal to ), bronchospasm (up to ), and pneumonia.
Nervous system side effects have included insomnia (up to ), dizziness (up to ), headache (up to ), anxiety , and depression (greater than or equal to ).
Musculoskeletal side effects have included myalgia (greater than or equal to ).
Hypersensitivity reactions have included rash, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, and allergic reactions (unspecified, up to ).
Renal side effects have included elevated creatinine  and elevated BUN .
Acute renal impairment has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypotension .
Ocular side effects have included vortex keratopathy during postmarketing experience.
Immunologic side effects have included hypersensitivity reactions including angioedema, bronchospasm, throat tightness, and urticaria during postmarketing experience.
Cough or hoarseness
difficult or labored breathing
fever or chills
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
tightness in the chest
Black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
bloating
blood in the urine or stools
bluish-colored lips, fingernails, or palms
constipation
dark urine
dizziness or lightheadedness
fast heartbeat
headache
indigestion
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
nausea
noisy breathing
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
rapid heart rate
sore throat
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
yellow eyes or skin
Abdominal or stomach pain
diarrhea
lack or loss of strength
runny nose
skin rash
sneezing
sore mouth or tongue
stuffy nose
sweating
trouble sleeping
white patches in the mouth, tongue, or throat
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
eye irritation or redness
itching or skin rash
joint or muscle pain
red skin lesions, often with a purple center