More frequently reported side effects include: proteinuria and urticaria.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Very common (10% or more): Hypoglycemia (13%), decreased weight (13%)
Very common (10% or more): Headache (13%)Common (1% to 10%): Dizziness, paresthesia
It has been reported that two patients (4%) had symptoms of pancreatitis.
Both had a medical history of pancreatitis.
Very common (10% or more): Abdominal pain (10%)Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, diarrhea, pancreatitis
Common (1% to 10%): Ovarian cyst
Common (1% to 10%): Anemia
Common (1% to 10%): Injection-site erythema, urticariaFrequency not reported: Generalized rash
In vitro neutralizing activity anti-metreleptin antibodies were identified in 2 patients (n=33) with generalized lipodystrophy who showed severe infections and worsening metabolic control (increases in HbA1c and/or triglycerides).
Three patients with anti-metreleptin antibodies without lipodystrophy showed excessive weight gain, and/or development of glucose intolerance or diabetes.
In clinical trials, anti-metreleptin antibodies were detected in 36 of 43 generalized lipodystrophy patients, with titers ranging from 1:5 to 1:1,953, 125; however, these numbers may be misleading as detection of antibody formation is highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay (the assays utilized in clinical trials lacked sensitivity), handling of the sample, concomitant drugs, and underlying disease.
Due to incompleteness of the immunogenicity data, the clinical significance and the magnitude and persistence of the anti-drug responses are not well characterized.
Frequency not reported: Autoimmune disorder, immunogenicity
Common (1% to 10%): Arthralgia, back pain
Common (1% to 10%): Pyrexia, ear infection, fatigue
Common (1% to 10%): Proteinuria
Common (1% to 10%): Upper respiratory tract infection
Frequency not reported: T-cell lymphoma, anaplastic large cell lymphoma
Three cases of T-cell lymphoma were reported among patients with acquired generalized lipodystrophy; 2 patients diagnosed with peripheral T-cell lymphoma during treatment had immunodeficiency and significant hematologic abnormalities including severe bone marrow abnormalities prior to starting treatment.
Anaplastic large cell lymphoma was reported in 1 patient receiving this drug who did not have hematologic abnormalities before treatment.
Anxiety
blurred vision
body aches or pain
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chills or fever
cold sweats
confusion
dizziness
fast heartbeat
headache
increased hunger
nausea
nervousness
shakiness
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bloating
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
vomiting
Back pain
diarrhea
ear drainage
earache or pain in the ear
muscle pain or stiffness
pain in the joints
weight loss