In a cumulative irritancy and sensitization study, methyl aminolevulinate cream was applied three times each week for  weeks to separate sites on the back of healthy volunteers.
Following a -week interval without further applications,  out of  subjects  who were rechallenged with the cream for  hours showed contact sensitization.
The potential for sensitization was also assessed by patch testing in a total of  patients with actinic keratoses previously treated with methyl aminolevulinate cream on at least four occasions.
Methyl aminolevulinate cream and vehicle cream were applied to different sites on the lower back for  hours.
Three patients  showed contact sensitization associated with erythema scores of  or higher (strong erythema spreading outside the patch), edema, vesiculation, papules, and glazing.
Postmarketing reports: Eczema, allergic contact dermatitis, urticaria, .
Most cases were localized to the treatment area, but rarely, erythema and swelling have been more extensive.
Contact sensitization has been demonstrated in dermal safety studies.
Very common ( or more): Eyelid edema Postmarketing reports: Edema, eyelid swelling, macular edema, vitreous detachment, keratitis
Very common ( or more): Skin burning/pain/discomfort (;  severe), erythema (;  severe), scabbing/crusting/blister/erosions (;  severe), pruritus , skin or eyelid edema (;  severe), skin exfoliation (;  severe)Common ( to ): Skin warmth , application site discharge , skin hemorrhage , skin tightness , and skin hyperpigmentation Postmarketing reports: Angioedema
Treatment site reactions occurred in  out of   patients treated with methyl aminolevulinate cream in two clinical trials.
The most frequent adverse reactions were associated with phototoxicity at the treatment site.
Pain and burning sensation typically begin during illumination and resolve completely within a few minutes or hours, but may last up to a few days.
Erythema and other signs generally resolve within a few days to  weeks.
Breakdown of the skin
irritation and redness of the skin
scabbing
swelling of the eyelid
swelling of the skin
Discharge at the site of application
sores on the skin that do not heal
Blistering, burning, crusting, dryness, or flaking of the skin
blurred vision or other change in vision
eye redness, irritation, or pain
hives or welts
itching, scaling, or severe redness of the skin
persistent non-healing sore
pink growth on the skin
reddish patch or irritated area on the skin
seeing flashes or sparks of light
seeing floating spots before the eyes, or a veil or curtain appearing across part of the vision
shiny bump on the skin
skin rash, encrusted, scaly and oozing
white, yellow, or waxy scar-like area on the skin
Darkening of the skin