Commonly reported side effects of micafungin include: febrile neutropenia, abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, headache, increased serum alanine aminotransferase, nausea, neutropenia, phlebitis, pruritus, skin rash, thrombocytopenia, and vomiting.
Other side effects include: abnormal hepatic function tests.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking micafungin, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Overall,  of patients treated with micafungin reported at least one side effect.
Candidemia and other Candida infections: During one study, treatment-emergent side effects were reported in  and  of patients treated with micafungin  mg/day and micafungin  mg/day, respectively.
These included gastrointestinal disorders (up to ), metabolism and nutrition disorders (up to ), general disorders/administration site conditions (up to ), investigations (up to ), and cardiac disorders (up to ).
During another study,  of patients treated with micafungin  mg/day reported treatment-emergent side effects.
Esophageal candidiasis: During one study,  of patients treated with micafungin  mg/day reported a side effect.
These included gastrointestinal disorders , vascular disorders , general disorders/administration site conditions , nervous system disorders , and skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders .
Micafungin was discontinued due to side effects in  of patients.
Prophylaxis of Candida infections in hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients: During one study, all adult patients who received micafungin (n=) reported at least one side effect.
These included gastrointestinal disorders , blood and lymphatic system disorders , skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders , nervous system disorders , psychiatric disorders , and cardiac disorders .
Micafungin was discontinued due to side effects in  of patients.
Very common ( or more): Diarrhea (up to ), nausea (up to ), vomiting (up to ), abdominal pain Rare (less than ): Acute pancreatitis (at least  case)Frequency not reported: Constipation, dyspepsia, upper abdominal pain, hiccups
Diarrhea was reported during the study for prophylaxis of Candida infections in HSCT recipients , the studies for candidemia and other Candida infections (up to ), and the study for esophageal candidiasis .
Nausea was reported during the study for prophylaxis of Candida infections in HSCT recipients , the studies for candidemia and other Candida infections (up to ), and the study for esophageal candidiasis .
Vomiting was reported during the study for prophylaxis of Candida infections in HSCT recipients , the studies for candidemia and other Candida infections (up to ), and the study for esophageal candidiasis .
Abdominal pain was reported during the study for prophylaxis of Candida infections in HSCT recipients.
A -year-old male presented with upper abdominal tenderness after  weeks of treatment with micafungin ( mg per day) for pulmonary aspergillosis accompanied by Mycobacterium avium complex infection.
Laboratory findings, magnetic resonance imaging, and upper abdominal tenderness were consistent with acute pancreatitis.
After stopping all drugs, his symptoms improved with bowel rest and parenteral nutrition.
Very common ( or more): Neutropenia , thrombocytopenia Common ( to ): Coagulopathy (less than ), pancytopenia (less than ), thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (less than )Frequency not reported: Anemia, febrile neutropenia, aggravated anemia, leukopenia, acute intravascular hemolysis, hemoglobinuria, hemolysis, hemolytic anemia, decreased white blood cell countPostmarketing reports: Disseminated intravascular coagulation
Neutropenia and thrombocytopenia were reported during the study for prophylaxis of Candida infections in HSCT recipients.
Headache was reported during the study for prophylaxis of Candida infections in HSCT recipients  and the study for esophageal candidiasis .
Very common ( or more): Headache (up to )Common ( to ): Convulsions (less than ), encephalopathy (less than ), intracranial hemorrhage (less than )Frequency not reported: Dysgeusia, somnolence, dizziness
Very common ( or more): Insomnia , anxiety Common ( to ): Delirium (less than )
Insomnia and anxiety were reported during the study for prophylaxis of Candida infections in HSCT recipients.
Tachycardia was reported during the study for prophylaxis of Candida infections in HSCT recipients.
Phlebitis was reported during the study for esophageal candidiasis.
Atrial fibrillation was reported during the studies for candidemia and other Candida infections.
Very common ( or more): Tachycardia , phlebitis Common ( to ): Atrial fibrillation (up to ), cardiac arrest (less than ), myocardial infarction (less than ), pericardial effusion (less than )Frequency not reported: Arrhythmia, cyanosis, deep venous thrombosis, hypertension, hypotension, bradycardiaPostmarketing reports: Shock
Very common ( or more): Rash (up to )Common ( to ): Urticaria (less than )Frequency not reported: Pruritus, decubitus ulcer, erythema multiforme, skin necrosis, erythemaPostmarketing reports: Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis
Rash was reported during the study for prophylaxis of Candida infections in HSCT recipients  and the study for esophageal candidiasis .
Pyrexia was reported during the study for esophageal candidiasis  and the studies for candidemia and other Candida infections (up to ).
Injection site reactions have been reported with doses of  to  mg per day.
These reactions occurred more often with peripheral IV administration.
Very common ( or more): Pyrexia (up to )Common ( to ): Infusion reaction (possible histamine-mediated symptoms including rash, pruritus, facial swelling, vasodilatation; less than ), injection site thrombosis (less than )Frequency not reported: Mucosal inflammation, infection, fever, injection site reactions (including phlebitis and thrombophlebitis) , fatigue, rigors, peripheral edema, bacteremia, flushing, septic shock, sepsis
Increased blood alkaline phosphatase, abnormal liver function tests, and increased aspartate aminotransferase were reported during the studies for candidemia and other Candida infections.
Common ( to ): Increased blood alkaline phosphatase (up to ), hepatocellular damage (less than ), hepatomegaly (less than ), jaundice (less than ), hepatic failure (less than ), abnormal liver function tests , increased aspartate aminotransferase Frequency not reported: Hepatitis, hyperbilirubinemia, worsening hepatic failure, abnormal hepatic function, increased alanine aminotransferasePostmarketing reports: Hepatic disorder
Common ( to ): Hypoglycemia (up to ), hypernatremia (up to ), hyperkalemia (up to )Frequency not reported: Acidosis, hypophosphatemia, hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, anorexia, decreased appetite, fluid overload, hypocalcemia, fluid retention, hyperglycemia
Hypoglycemia, hypernatremia, and hyperkalemia were reported during the studies for candidemia and other Candida infections.
Common ( to ): Hypersensitivity (less than ), anaphylactic reaction (less than )Frequency not reported: Possible histamine-mediated symptoms (including rash, pruritus, facial swelling, vasodilatation), serious hypersensitivity (anaphylaxis and anaphylactoid) reactions (including shock)
In controlled trials, the incidence of drug-related renal adverse events was .
Frequency not reported: Elevations in BUN and serum creatinine, anuria, oliguria, renal tubular necrosis, hemoglobinuria, acute renal failurePostmarketing reports: Renal impairment
Frequency not reported: Cough, dyspnea, epistaxis, pneumonia, apnea, hypoxia, pulmonary embolism
Frequency not reported: Back pain, arthralgia
Black, tarry, stools
cough
decreased frequency or amount of urine
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
fever or chills
increased thirst
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
nausea or vomiting
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
shortness of breath
swelling of the face, fingers, or lower legs
trouble breathing
ulcers, sores, or white spots in the mouth
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
weight gain
Bone pain
changes in skin color, pain, tenderness, or swelling of the foot or leg
chest pain
convulsions
drowsiness
mood or mental changes
muscle pain or cramps
muscle spasms or twitching
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
seizures
swollen glands
trembling
Abdominal or stomach cramps
blurred vision
dizziness
headache
nervousness
pounding in the ears
slow or fast heartbeat
weakness or heaviness of the legs
Agitation
back, leg, or stomach pain
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bruising
diarrhea
fast, weak pulse
general body swelling
hives
hostility or irritability
itching
joint pain
lightheadedness
light-colored stools
nosebleeds
persistent bleeding or oozing from puncture sites, mouth, or nose
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
skin rash or redness
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin
Cold sweats
cool, pale skin
depression
flushing
increased hunger
nightmares
slurred speech
welts
Bluish color
feeling unusually cold or shivering
Belching
change in taste
confusion as to time, place, or person
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
hallucinations
heartburn
hiccups
injection site pain
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
stomach discomfort or upset
unusual excitement, nervousness, or restlessness