The overall safety of miconazole buccal tablets was assessed in 480 adult subjects, including 315 HIV-infected subjects, 147 subjects with head and neck cancer, and 18 healthy subjects.
Discontinuation due to side effects occurred in 0.
6% of subjects overall.
Although intravenous miconazole has been discontinued in the U.
S.
, side effects associated with this formulation have been included.
Local side effects have included oral discomfort, oral burning, oral pain, gingival pain, gingival swelling, gingival pruritus, tongue ulceration, mouth ulceration, glossodynia, dry mouth, application site pain or discomfort, toothache, loss of taste, and altered taste in 12.
1% of HIV-infected patients.
Oral discomfort, oral pain, dry mouth, glossodynia, loss of taste, altered taste, tongue ulceration, mouth ulceration, tooth disorder, and application site discomfort or pain have been reported in 9.
5% of patients with head and neck cancer.
Phlebitis has been reported in at least one-third of patients treated with intravenous miconazole.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea (up to 9%), nausea (up to 6.
6%), vomiting (up to 3.
8%), dry mouth (2.
8%), oral discomfort (2.
7%), upper abdominal pain (up to 2.
5%), and gastroenteritis (1.
4%).
Nausea, vomiting, anorexia, and diarrhea have been reported with intravenous miconazole.
Nervous system side effects have included headache (up to 7.
6%), dysgeusia (up to 4.
1%), and ageusia (2.
4%).
Dizziness has been reported with intravenous miconazole.
Respiratory side effects have included cough (2.
8%), upper respiratory infection (2.
1%), and pharyngeal pain (0.
7%).
Hematologic side effects have included anemia (2.
8%), lymphopenia (1.
7%), and neutropenia (0.
7%).
Transient decreases in hematocrit, thrombocytosis, thrombocytopenia, and erythrocyte aggregation have been reported with intravenous miconazole.
Other side effects have included fatigue (2.
8%) and pain (1%).
Fever and chills have been reported with intravenous miconazole.
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus (2%).
Pruritus (which may have been accompanied by maculopapular rash) has been reported with intravenous miconazole, and in some cases, severe pruritus developed after weeks of therapy or after therapy was completed.
Hepatic side effects have included elevated gamma glutamyltransferase (1%).
Hypersensitivity side effects have included allergic reaction (including anaphylactic reactions and hypersensitivity).
Contact dermatitis has been reported when intravenous miconazole was used topically.
Anaphylaxis has been reported rarely with intravenous miconazole.
Increases in cholesterol and triglycerides reported in patients receiving intravenous miconazole were due to its vehicle, and were reversible upon discontinuation of the drug.
Hyperlipidemia due to Cremophor EL had the atypical appearance of gamma-2 globulin.
Hyponatremia associated with intravenous miconazole therapy resulted in a mean decrease in sodium of 10 mEq/L, but usually was not a reason to discontinue therapy.
Miconazole was usually administered in normal saline solution to help minimize decreases in sodium.
Metabolic side effects associated with intravenous miconazole have included hyperlipidemia, which was associated with the vehicle of miconazole (Cremophor EL [polyethoxylated castor oil]), and hyponatremia.
Cardiovascular side effects associated with intravenous miconazole have included cardiac arrhythmias, tachycardia, and cardiac arrest.
These effects may have been associated with rapid infusion of miconazole and due to the Cremophor EL vehicle.
Ocular side effects associated with intravenous miconazole have included blurred vision.
Psychiatric side effects associated with intravenous miconazole have included euphoria.
Renal side effects have included acute renal failure, possibly due to intravenous miconazole administration, in one patient with a renal allograft.
Body aches or pain
cough
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
fever or chills
headache
loss of voice
lower back or side pain
nasal congestion
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Black, tarry stools
pale skin
shortness of breath
ulcers, sores, or white spots in the mouth
Change in taste
diarrhea
dry mouth
headache
itching skin
loss of taste
nausea
pain, redness, and swelling of the gums
sores on the tongue
toothache
Abdominal or stomach pain
loss of appetite
pain
upper abdominal or stomach pain
weakness