Common side effects of Migranal include: nausea and rhinitis.
Other side effects include: application site reaction, vomiting, and altered sense of smell.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking dihydroergotamine, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea have been reported to occur commonly.
The most frequent side effect with the use of intravenous dihydroergotamine is nausea.
Following intramuscular or intranasal administration, the incidence of nausea is low.
Other side effects including arterial spasm, sometimes with resulting limb necrosis, have been reported rarely.
The incidence is believed to be about  to  per , patients treated for thromboprophylaxis.
Musculoskeletal side effects including muscle cramps and weakness have been reported.
Nervous system side effects including drowsiness, restlessness, cerebral arteriopathy, and paresthesias have been reported.
Local side effects including pain, burning, itching, edemas, and hematomas at the site of parenteral administration have been reported to occur commonly.
Cardiovascular side effects including hypertension, tachycardia, bradycardia, precordial distress, and chest pain have been reported.
Myocardial ischemia and myocardial infarction have been reported rarely.
Respiratory side effects including pleural fibrosis have been reported following long-term high dose treatment.
Renal side effect including retroperitoneal fibrosis have been reported following long-term high dose treatment.
Chest pain
cough, fever, sneezing, or sore throat
feeling of heaviness in chest
irregular heartbeat
itching of the skin
numbness and tingling of face, fingers, or toes
pain in arms, legs, or lower back
pain in back, chest or left arm
pale bluish-colored or cold hands or feet
shortness of breath or troubled breathing
weak or absent pulses in legs
Confusion
convulsions (seizures)
delirium
dizziness
headaches
nausea and/or vomiting
numbness, tingling, and/or pain in the legs or arms
shortness of breath
stomach pain
Burning or tingling sensation, dryness, soreness, or pain in the nose
change in sense of taste
diarrhea
dizziness
dry mouth
fatigue
headache 
increased sweating
nausea and or vomiting
muscle stiffness
runny and or stuffy nose
sudden sweatings and feelings of warmth
sensation of burning, warmth, or heat 
sore throat
sleepiness 
unexplained nose bleeds
unusual tiredness or weakness
Anxiety
blurred vision
cold clammy skin
confusion
congestion in chest
cough
decreased appetite
depression
difficulty swallowing
dizziness or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position
ear pain
eye pain
fever
heartburn
increased watering of eyes
increased watering of the mouth 
increased yawning
muscle weakness
nervousness
pinpoint red spots on skin
pounding heartbeat
red or irritated eyes
ringing or buzzing in ears
skin rash
stomach pain
sudden fainting
swelling of face, fingers, feet, or lower legs
trembling or shaking of hands or feet
trouble in sleeping
unusual feeling of well being