Common side effects of Minipress include: dizziness.
Other side effects include: syncope and drowsiness.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Although all patients are susceptible to prazosin-induced postural hypotension, risk factors include higher doses, coadministration of beta-blockers, and preexisting serum sodium depletion.
Animal studies have revealed that prazosin (the active ingredient contained in Minipress) exerts a negative chronotropic action on the sinus node of the dog.
Rare evidence of associated bradycardia in man has been reported.
A 50-year-old man with benign prostatic hypertrophy developed presyncope, described as "lightheadedness within 45 minutes after taking prazosin".
The patient was referred for pacemaker placement.
The patient was convinced that the drug was the offending agent, so he stopped it and became asymptomatic.
A follow-up electrocardiogram revealed normal sinus rhythm at 55 beats per minute, and the pacemaker placement was cancelled.
The author of this case report has located two other such cases that were reported to the United Kingdom Committee on Safety of Medicines over a 30-year period.
Cardiovascular side effects are common during initial therapy.
A postural hypotension "first dose effect" has occurred in up to 10% to 70% of patients.
For this reason, it is recommended that therapy be started with the patient supine, preferably at bedtime.
Syncope has been reported in approximately 1% of patients.
Other side effects have included palpitations in 7% to 14% of patients, fluid retention in 5% of patients, and rare case reports of angina and sinus bradycardia.
Palpitations may have been due to reflex tachycardia secondary to prazosin-induced decreased peripheral vascular resistance and systemic blood pressure.
Ocular side effects including Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome (IFIS) have been observed in some patients undergoing phacoemulsification cataract surgery while being treated with alpha-1 blockers.
Most reports were in patients treated with an alpha-1 blocker at the time IFIS occurred, but in some instances the alpha-1 blocker had been stopped prior to surgery.
The manufacturer recommends that patients be questioned to determine whether or not they have taken alpha-1 blockers prior to being considered for cataract surgery.
If it is determined that the patient has taken an alpha-1 blocker, the patient's ophthalmologist should be prepared for possible modifications to their surgical technique that may be necessary should IFIS be observed during the procedure.
Hallucinations, irritability, and confusion have been reported in less than 1% of patients.
A rare case of hypothermia has been associated with the use of prazosin (the active ingredient contained in Minipress) 
Nervous system side effects have included headache in 8% to 18% (more common in patients with a history of migraine), fatigue in 8%, and blurred vision in less than 5% of patients.
Genitourinary side effects have often been due to alpha-adrenergic blockade of the urinary sphincter muscle.
Genitourinary side effects have included urinary frequency and incontinence.
Impotence has been reported in less than 1% of male patients.
Priapism has been reported in a few cases, and may be more likely in patients with renal insufficiency.
Rare cases of fecal incontinence, thought to be due to alpha-adrenergic blockade of the anal sphincter due to prazosin (the active ingredient contained in Minipress)  have been reported.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea in about 5% of patients.
Constipation or diarrhea has occurred in less than 4% of patients.
Xerostomia has been less common than with less selective alpha-adrenergic receptor blockers.
Hypersensitivity reactions have been rare, and have included urticaria and a serum sickness-like reaction manifest as fever, arthralgias, and cold sweats.
Respiratory side effects have been limited to nasal congestion in less than 4% of patients.
Musculoskeletal side effects including rare cases of musculoskeletal complaints and acute febrile polyarthritis have been associated with the use of prazosin (the active ingredient contained in Minipress)   The suspected mechanism is immunologic hypersensitivity.
Dizziness or lightheadedness, especially when getting up from a lying or sitting position
fainting (sudden)
Loss of bladder control
pounding heartbeat
swelling of the feet or lower legs
Chest pain
trouble breathing
Painful or prolonged erection of the penis
Drowsiness
headache
lack of energy
Dryness of the mouth
nervousness
unusual tiredness or weakness
Frequent urge to urinate
nausea