This medicine causes a temporary increase in hair growth in most people.
Hair may grow longer and darker in both men and women.
This may first be noticed on the face several weeks after you start taking minoxidil.
Later, new hair growth may be noticed on the back, arms, legs, and scalp.
Talk to your doctor about shaving or using a hair remover during this time.
After treatment with minoxidil has ended, the hair will stop growing, although it may take several months for the new hair growth to go away.
Minoxidil is usually administered with a beta-blocker to counteract the increased cardiac output and cardiac work associated with profound minoxidil-induced vasodilation and with a loop diuretic to counteract the sodium and water retaining properties of minoxidil.
Cardiovascular side effects are related to peripheral vasodilation and sodium and water retention, and include hypotension, sinus tachycardia, provocation of angina, edema, and weight gain.
Edema is expected without concomitant use of a diuretic agent.
Pericardial effusions occur in up to  of patients and may be more likely in patients with renal insufficiency.
Reversible, nonspecific ST-T wave electrocardiographic changes occur in  to  of patients.
The hypotensive effect of minoxidil may last for days after drug discontinuation.
The mechanism of minoxidil-associated angina is not known.
Theories include a coronary "steal" phenomenon secondary to coronary vasodilation, resulting in relative ischemia to hypoperfused areas of myocardium and increased cardiac work secondary to minoxidil-induced reflex tachycardia.
Nonspecific ST-T wave changes are not necessarily associated with cardiac disease.
The incidence of pericardial effusion in minoxidil-treated uremic patients is greater than that expected in non-treated uremic patients.
Tamponade is reported in up to  of minoxidil-associated pericardial effusions, which has been fatal in rare cases.
Rare cases of pulmonary hypertension have been associated with minoxidil.
Pulmonary hypertension is thought to be due to a minoxidil-induced increase in cardiac output and in pulmonary blood flow.
Hemorrhagic and degenerative lesions of the right atrium and focal necrosis of the left ventricular papillary muscle have been described in dog studies, but not in monkeys.
No data are available in humans.
Hypertrichosis usually presents as elongated and hyperpigmented new hair.
Hypertrichosis is reversible.
Hypertrichosis usually begins at the temples, forehead, and between the eyebrows, but may involve the trunk, extremities, and scalp.
Some studies have shown hypertrichosis to occur at lower doses in females, although it may be that females were more distressed by this side effect, and presented these findings earlier than men did.
Dermatologic side effects are common.
Hypertrichosis occurs in  to  of patients within the first  to  weeks of therapy.
A fatal case of toxic epidermal necrolysis has also been reported.
Hypersensitivity reactions such as contact dermatitis, desquamative and bullous rashes, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome have been reported in less than  of patients.
Gastrointestinal side effects are uncommon and include nausea and vomiting.
A case of thrombocytopenia associated with minoxidil, which recurred upon rechallenge, has been reported.
Hematologic side effects, such as decreased hematocrit and hemoglobin, are usually related to dilution from minoxidil-induced sodium and water retention.
Nervous system side effects are usually limited to headache in approximately  and dizziness in approximately  of patients.
Rare cases of general fatigue have been reported.
A case of bilateral optic neuritis, followed by atrophy and vision loss, was associated with minoxidil, despite the fact that the patient was taking other medications as well.
Immunologic side effects are extremely rare.
A case of a lupus syndrome associated with the development of a speckled ANA pattern has been associated with minoxidil.
The patient had previously taken hydralazine, but did not test positive for ANA until after minoxidil was substituted for hydralazine.
Endocrine side effects include at least one case of pseudoacromegaly.
A case of pseudoacromegaly which resulted from long-term ( years) use of minoxidil ( mg/day) has been reported.
Fast or irregular heartbeat
weight gain (rapid) of more than  pounds ( pounds in children)
Chest pain
shortness of breath
Bloating
flushing or redness of skin 
swelling of feet or lower legs
Numbness or tingling of hands, feet, or face
Skin rash and itching
Increase in hair growth, usually on face, arms, and back
Breast tenderness in males and females
headache