Also, because of the way cancer medicines act on the body, there is a chance that they might cause other unwanted effects that may not occur until months or years after the medicine is used.
These delayed effects may include certain types of cancer.
Discuss these possible effects with your doctor.
Mitomycin sometimes causes a temporary loss of hair.
After treatment has ended, normal hair growth should return.
After you stop taking this drug, it is possible that you may still experience side effects that need medical attention.
If you notice any of the following side effects check with your doctor immediately:
Also, check with your doctor if you notice any of the following:
Recovery from thrombocytopenia has generally been reported to take place within ten weeks.
Approximately  of leukopenic or thrombocytopenic episodes have been reported to have not recovered.
Hematologic side effects including bone marrow toxicity  have been the most common and most serious toxicity associated with the use of mitomycin.
Thrombocytopenia and/or leukopenia have been reported to occur anytime within eight weeks of initiation of therapy.
Mitomycin produces cumulative myelosuppression.
HUS has been reported to occur most often at doses greater than or equal to  mg.
HUS consists primarily of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (hematocrit less than or equal to ), thrombocytopenia (platelet count less than or equal to ,/mm), and irreversible renal failure (serum creatinine greater than or equal to  mg/dL).
A  mortality rate has been associated with this syndrome.
Other side effects have included hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS).
Extravasation has been reported even without an accompanying stinging or burning sensation and even if their is adequate blood return when the injection needle is aspirated.
Dermatologic side effects have included the necrosis and consequent sloughing of tissue which results if the drug is extravasated during injection.
Alopecia has been frequently reported.
Cellulitis at the injection site has been reported and is occasionally severe.
Rashes have rarely been reported.
Delayed erythema and/or ulceration has been reported to occur either at or distant from the injection site, weeks to months after mitomycin.
Allergic contact dermatitis has also been reported.
Respiratory side effects have been reported infrequently.
However, they may be severe and even life threatening.
Adult respiratory distress syndrome has been reported.
Dyspnea with a nonproductive cough and radiographic evidence of pulmonary infiltrates may be indicative of mitomycin-induced pulmonary toxicity.
Adult respiratory distress syndrome has been reported in a few patients receiving mitomycin in combination with other chemotherapy and maintained at fraction of inspired oxygen concentrations greater than  perioperatively.
Because oxygen itself is toxic to the lungs, it is recommended to use only enough oxygen to provide adequate arterial saturation.
No correlation between the total dose administered or duration of therapy and the degree of renal impairment has been reported.
Renal side effects including a statistically significant rise in creatinine  have been reported.
Cardiovascular side effects including congestive heart failure have rarely been reported.
Edema and thrombophlebitis have also been reported.
Almost all of the patients who experience congestive heart failure had received prior doxorubicin therapy.
General side effects including fever, headache, confusion, drowsiness, syncope, fatigue, and pain have been reported.
Gastrointestinal side effects including anorexia, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea have been reported.
Genitourinary side effects including two cases of urethral slough and one case of necrosis of the glans penis have been reported.
Black, tarry stools
blood in urine or stools
cough or hoarseness
fever or chills
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
pinpoint red spots on skin
unusual bleeding or bruising
Redness or pain, especially at place of injection
Cough
decreased urination
shortness of breath
sores in mouth and on lips
swelling of feet or lower legs
Bloody vomit
Loss of appetite
nausea and vomiting 
Numbness or tingling in fingers and toes
purple-colored bands on nails
skin rash
unusual tiredness or weakness
Blood in urine
Black, tarry stools
blood in stools 
cough or hoarseness
decreased urination
fever or chills
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
pinpoint red spots on skin
red or painful skin
shortness of breath 
swelling of feet or lower legs
unusual bleeding or bruising