If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking atropine / difenoxin, get emergency help immediately:
After you stop taking this drug, it is possible that you may still experience side effects that need medical attention.
If you notice any of the following side effects check with your doctor immediately:
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea (1 in 15 patients), vomiting (1 in 30 patients), dry mouth (1 in 30 patients), epigastric distress (1 in 100 patients), and constipation ( 1 in 300 patients).
In patients receiving chemically-related drugs, toxic megacolon, paralytic ileus, pancreatitis, and anorexia have been reported.
Cardiovascular side effects have included tachycardia with the use of atropine.
Nervous system side effects have included dizziness (1 in 20 patients), lightheadedness (1 in 20 patients), drowsiness (1 in 25 patients), headache (1 in 40 patients).
Other less common side effects have included tiredness and insomnia.
Patients receiving chemically-related drugs have reported confusion, numbness of extremities, euphoria, depression, and sedation.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included anaphylaxis, angioneurotic edema, urticaria, swelling of the gums, and pruritus.
Ocular side effects have included burning eyes and blurred vision.
General side effects reported with use of atropine have included flushing and hyperthermia.
Genitourinary side effects have included urinary retention with use of atropine.
Bloating
constipation
loss of appetite
stomach pain (severe) with nausea and vomiting
Blurred vision (continuing) or changes in near vision
drowsiness (severe)
dryness of mouth, nose, and throat (severe)
fast heartbeat
shortness of breath or troubled breathing (severe)
unusual excitement, nervousness, restlessness, or irritability 
unusual warmth, dryness, and flushing of skin
Blurred vision
confusion
difficult urination
dizziness or lightheadedness 
drowsiness
dryness of skin and mouth
fever
headache
trouble in sleeping
unusual tiredness or weakness
Increased sweating
muscle cramps
nausea or vomiting
shivering or trembling 
stomach cramps