Common side effects of Mycobutin include: neutropenia and urine discoloration.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Rifabutin was generally well tolerated in clinical trials.
Discontinuation due to a side effect was reported in 16% of patients taking rifabutin (the active ingredient contained in Mycobutin) compared to 8% of patients taking placebo.
Discontinuation of rifabutin was mainly due to rash (4%), gastrointestinal intolerance (3%), and neutropenia (2%).
Hematologic side effects have included neutropenia (less than 750/mm3; 25%), leukopenia (less than 1500/mm3; 17%), anemia (less than 8 g/dL; 6%), thrombocytopenia (less than 50,000/mm3; 5%), eosinophilia (1%), and hemolysis (less than 1%).
At least one case of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura has been reported.
Neutropenia and thrombocytopenia have been associated with rifabutin use.
However, the latter may be related to underlying disease since it has been observed at a similar rate in control groups in placebo-controlled trials.
Dermatologic side effects have included rash (11%) and skin discoloration (less than 1%).
Perspiration and skin may be discolored brown-orange with rifabutin (the active ingredient contained in Mycobutin) and some of its metabolites.
At least one case of acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis has been reported.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea (6%), nausea and vomiting (3%), dyspepsia (3%), diarrhea (3%), eructation (3%), anorexia (2%), flatulence (2%), vomiting (1%), and Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea.
Feces and saliva may be discolored brown-orange with rifabutin (the active ingredient contained in Mycobutin) and some of its metabolites.
Aphthous stomatitis has rarely been reported.
Ocular side effects have included uveitis, resulting in itching, decreased vision, photophobia, pain, and temporary blindness in some patients.
Uveitis was reported at doses from 1050 mg/day to 2400 mg/day.
Tears may be discolored brown-orange with rifabutin (the active ingredient contained in Mycobutin) and some of its metabolites.
Soft contact lenses may be permanently stained.
Uveitis was rare when rifabutin was used as a single agent at 300 mg/day, even in combination with fluconazole and/or macrolides.
However, the incidence of uveitis was greater if higher doses of rifabutin were used with these agents.
Patients who developed uveitis had mild to severe symptoms that resolved following therapy with corticosteroids and/or mydriatic eye drops; however, in some severe cases, resolution of symptoms occurred after several weeks.
Hepatic side effects have included increased SGPT (greater than 150 units/L; 9%), increased SGOT (greater than 150 units/L; 7%), and hepatitis (less than 1%).
Other side effects have included abdominal pain (4%), taste perversion (3%), fever (2%), asthenia (1%), chest pain (1%), pain (1%), and influenza-like syndrome.
Sputum may be discolored brown-orange with rifabutin (the active ingredient contained in Mycobutin) and some of its metabolites.
Drug-induced lupus syndrome has been reported.
Three cases of drug-induced lupus syndrome (DILS) have been reported.
All cases were receiving standard doses of rifabutin and all had positive antinuclear antibodies during their lupus-like reactions.
Symptoms of DILS included malaise, myalgias, arthralgias, and fever.
None of the cases experienced lupus-type nephritis or skin and CNS involvement.
Nervous system side effects have included headache (3%), insomnia (1%), seizure, paresthesia, aphasia, and confusion.
In one study of 10 patients receiving greater than 1 gram of rifabutin (the active ingredient contained in Mycobutin) per day, nine developed significant distal, small joint arthralgias.
No evidence of concomitant rheumatic disease was evident and no effusions were observed.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included myalgia (2%), arthralgia (less than 1%), myositis (less than 1%), and polyarthralgia-arthritis syndrome (rare).
Generalized arthralgia was reported at doses from 1050 mg/day to 2400 mg/day.
Cardiovascular side effects have included nonspecific T wave changes on electrocardiogram.
Metabolic side effects have included increased alkaline phosphatase (greater than 450 units/L; less than 1%).
Respiratory side effects have included chest pressure or pain with dyspnea in less than 1% of patients.
Genitourinary side effects have included urine discoloration (30%).
Urine may be discolored brown-orange with rifabutin and some of its metabolites.
Black, tarry stools
chest pain
chills
cough
diarrhea
fever
heartburn
indigestion
itching or skin rash
loss of appetite
painful or difficult urination
sore throat
ulcers, sores, or white spots in the mouth
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Loss of strength or energy
muscle pain
Bruising or purple spots on the skin
change in taste
eye pain
joint pain
loss of vision
lower back or side pain
muscle swelling or pain
pale skin
yellow skin
Abdominal or stomach pain
bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste in the mouth
belching
bloated or full feeling
change in taste
discoloration of the urine
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
headache
nausea
passing gas
trouble sleeping