Nervous system effects including ataxia and vertigo have been reported most frequently.
Ataxia and vertigo tend to disappear either with continued therapy or with the reduction of the initial dosage.
Gastrointestinal effects including nausea, anorexia, and vomiting have been reported occasionally.
General effects including fatigue, hyperirritability, and drowsiness have been reported occasionally.
Psychiatric effects including emotional disturbances have been reported occasionally.
A case of primidone (the active ingredient contained in Mysoline) induced catatonic schizophrenia has also been reported.
Massive crystalluria has also been rarely been reported following acute overdoses of primidone (the active ingredient contained in Mysoline) 
Genitourinary effects including sexual impotency have been reported occasionally.
A case of massive crystalluria has been reported in a patient receiving maintenance doses of primidone.
Ocular effects including diplopia and nystagmus have been reported occasionally.
Dermatologic effects including morbilliform skin eruptions have been reported occasionally.
Hematologic effects including granulocytopenia, agranulocytosis, red cell hypoplasia, thrombocytopenia, and aplasia have been reported rarely.
The manufacturer has reported that megaloblastic anemia may occur as a rare idiosyncrasy to primidone (the active ingredient contained in Mysoline) 
The anemia may respond to folic acid without the necessity to discontinue the primidone.
The phenobarbital metabolite of primidone has been reported to have potentiated porphyrias.
Rheumatologic side effects include drug induced lupus, frozen shoulder, and Dupuytren's contractures.
Shakiness and unsteady walk
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination
Unusual excitement or restlessness (especially in children and in the elderly)
Chills
cough or hoarseness
fainting spells
fever and sore throat
fever with or without chills
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
irregular heartbeat
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
shortness of breath
skin rash
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness 
Confusion
continuous, uncontrolled rolling eye movements
double vision
troubled breathing
Clumsiness or unsteadiness
dizziness or lightheadedness
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
sensation of spinning
Decreased sexual ability
drowsiness
loss of appetite
mood or mental changes
nausea or vomiting