Common side effects of Naglazyme include: severe infusion related reaction, conjunctivitis, rigors, chest pain, development of igg antibodies, dyspnea, infusion related reaction, otalgia, pain, and pharyngitis.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, galsulfase (the active ingredient contained in Naglazyme) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some galsulfase side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most frequently reported adverse reactions included rash, pain, urticaria, pyrexia, pruritus, chills, headache, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and dyspnea.
The most frequently reported adverse reactions requiring interventions are infusion-related reactions.
Frequency not reported: Anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reaction, allergic reaction
Very common ( or more): Rash , angioedema, urticaria, pruritusCommon ( to ): Erythema
Very common ( or more): Abdominal pain , gastroenteritis , umbilical hernia , nausea, vomiting
Very common ( or more): Infusion reactions , ear pain , pain , chills/rigors , chest pain , malaise , hearing impairment , pyrexia
Infusion reactions, which occurred in  of patients across  clinical studies were defined as adverse reactions occurring during infusions or until the end of the infusion day.
Infusion reactions were observed as early as week  and as late as week  of treatment and occurred during multiple infusions, however, not always in consecutive weeks.
The most common signs/symptoms included pruritus, vomiting, abdominal pain, nausea, hypertension, headache, chest pain, erythema, cough, hypotension, angioedema, respiratory distress, tremor, conjunctivitis, malaise, bronchospasm, and arthralgia.
Very common ( or more): Hypertension Common ( to ): HypotensionFrequency not reported: Pallor, bradycardia, tachycardia, cyanosis, shock
Very common ( or more): Areflexia , headacheCommon ( to ): TremorFrequency not reported: Paresthesia
Very common ( or more): Dyspnea , pharyngitis , nasal congestion Common ( to ): Apnea, cough, respiratory distress, asthma, bronchospasmFrequency not reported: Laryngeal edema, hypoxia, tachypnea, sleep apneaPostmarketing reports: Respiratory failure
Very common ( or more): Arthralgia 
Very common ( or more): Conjunctivitis , corneal opacity 
Very common ( or more): Development of antidrug antibodies 
During clinical trials,  out of  patients tested positive for antidrug IgG antibodies within  to  weeks of treatment.
In the placebo controlled study,  patients were evaluated for a potential relationship between development of antidrug antibodies to clinical outcome measures.
While all  patients developed antidrug antibodies, there was no consistent predictive relationship between total antibody titer, neutralizing or IgE antibodies, and infusion-associated reactions, urinary glycosaminoglycan (GAG) levels, or endurance measures.
Postmarketing reports: Membranous nephropathy
Postmarketing reports: Thrombocytopenia
It is possible that some side effects of Naglazyme may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Blurred or decreased vision
chest pain
difficult or labored breathing
dizziness
headache
hernia of the naval
nervousness
pounding in the ears
slow or fast heartbeat
swelling of the face
tightness in the chest
Back pain
bluish lips or skin
confusion
cough
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fever, chills, or sweating
hives or welts
joint pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of bladder control
loss of bowel control
nausea or vomiting
paralysis of the limbs
stomach pain
Diarrhea
ear pain
loss of appetite
Body aches or pain
burning, dry, or itching eyes
congestion
dryness or soreness of the throat
excessive tearing
loss of or increase in reflexes
runny or stuffy nose
tender, swollen glands in the neck
trouble with swallowing
unusual tiredness or weakness
voice changes
Difficulty with moving
loss of voice
muscle pain or stiffness
sneezing