As well as its needed effects, nalbuphine may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking nalbuphine, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some nalbuphine side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Nervous system side effects have frequently included sedation (36%), dizziness/vertigo (5%), and headache (3%).
Nervousness, depression, restlessness, crying, euphoria, floating, hostility, unusual dreams, confusion, faintness, hallucinations, dysphoria, feeling of heaviness, numbness, tingling, and unreality have been reported in less than 1% of patients.
A depressed level of consciousness, somnolence, tremor, anxiety, agitation.
and seizures have also been reported.
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypertension, hypotension, bradycardia, and tachycardia.
Gastrointestinal side effects have frequently included nausea/vomiting (6%) and dry mouth (4%).
Cramps, dyspepsia, and bitter taste have been reported in less than 1% of patients.
Respiratory side effects have included respiratory depression, dyspnea, asthma, and pulmonary edema.
Dermatologic side effects have included itching, burning, and urticaria.
Other side effects have frequently included a sweaty/clammy feeling (9%).
Speech difficulty and flushing/warmth have been reported in less than 1% of patients.
Genitourinary side effects have included urinary urgency.
Ocular side effects have included blurred vision.
Hypersensitivity reactions have included anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions including shock, respiratory distress, respiratory arrest, bradycardia, cardiac arrest, hypotension, and laryngeal edema.
Some of these allergic reactions may be life-threatening.
Death has been reported following severe allergic reactions to nalbuphine.
Stridor, bronchospasm, wheezing, edema, rash, pruritus, nausea, vomiting, diaphoresis, weakness, and shakiness have also been reported.
Local side effects have included pain, swelling, redness, burning, and hot sensations at the site of injection.
General side effects including abdominal pain and pyrexia have been reported.
It is possible that some side effects of nalbuphine may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Chest pain or discomfort
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty swallowing
fainting
false beliefs that cannot be changed by facts
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips or tongue
redness of the face, neck, arms and occasionally, upper chest
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
sense of detachment from self or body
shortness of breath
slow or irregular heartbeat
wheezing
Blue lips and fingernails
convulsions
coughing that sometimes produces a pink frothy sputum
decrease in consciousness
difficult, fast, or noisy breathing, sometimes with wheezing
fear or nervousness
fever
hyperventilation
increased sweating
loss of bladder control
muscle spasm or jerking of all extremities
pale skin
shakiness in legs, arms, hands, or feet
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
stomach pain
sudden loss of consciousness
swelling in legs and ankles
trembling or shaking of hands or feet
Dizziness or lightheadedness
drowsiness
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
nausea
relaxed and calm
sensation of spinning
sleepiness
sweaty, clammy skin
vomiting
Dry mouth
Headache
Acid or sour stomach
aggressive or angry
belching
blurred vision
burning
changes in speech
confusion
cough
discouragement
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly
dysphoria
excessive crying
false or unusual sense of well-being
feeling of heaviness
feeling of warmth
feeling sad or empty
floating feeling
frequent strong or increased urge to urinate
headache
heartburn
hives or welts
indigestion
irritability
itching of skin
lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
nervousness
numbness
pounding in the ears
restlessness
skin rash
slow or fast heartbeat
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
tiredness
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
tingling feeling of unreality
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at site