Commonly reported side effects of naloxegol include: abdominal pain.
Other side effects include: diarrhea and flatulence.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, naloxegol may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking naloxegol, check with your doctor immediately:
Some naloxegol side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most common adverse reactions include abdominal pain, nausea, diarrhea, headache, vomiting, and flatulence.
Common ( to ): Possible opioid withdrawal ( or more symptoms on the same day including, but not limited to hyperhidrosis, chills, diarrhea, abdominal pain, anxiety, irritability, and yawning)
Possible opioid withdrawal defined as at least  adverse reactions potentially related to opioid withdrawal occurring on the same day and not all related to the gastrointestinal system occurred in less than  of patients ( of ) receiving the  mg dose and  of patients ( of ) receiving the  mg dose.
Symptoms included, but were not limited to hyperhidrosis, chills, diarrhea, abdominal pain, anxiety, irritability, and yawning.
For patients receiving methadone, higher frequencies of gastrointestinal adverse reactions were observed compared with other opioids.
Very common ( or more): Abdominal pain (up to )Common ( to ): Diarrhea, nausea, flatulence, vomiting
Common ( to ): Hyperhidrosis
Common ( to ): Headache
Common ( to ): Nasopharyngitis
It is possible that some side effects of naloxegol may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal or stomach pain
anxiety
chills
diarrhea
increased sweating
irritability
yawning
Bloody, black or tarry stools
heartburn
indigestion
nausea
severe abdominal or stomach pain, cramping, or burning
trouble breathing
vomiting of material that looks like coffee grounds, severe and continuing
Bloated
excess air or gas in the stomach or bowels
full feeling
passing gas
Headache
vomiting