More frequently reported side effects include: fatigue.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, nebivolol may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking nebivolol, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking nebivolol, get emergency help immediately:
Some nebivolol side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The more frequently reported side effects in patients treated for hypertension were headache, dizziness, and fatigue; additionally, bradycardia was frequently reported in patients treated for chronic heart failure.
Very common (10% or more): Bradycardia (up to 11%)Common (1% to 10%): Cardiac failure aggravation, edema, postural hypotension, first degree atrioventricular (AV) block, atrial fibrillation, hypertension, angina pectoris, chest painUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Heart failure, slowed AV conduction, AV block (both second and third degree), hypotension, increased intermittent claudication, edema of the lower limbs, Postmarketing reports: Raynaud's phenomenon, myocardial infarction, peripheral ischemia
Bradycardia was a dose-related effect in hypertensive patients.
Bradycardia occurred more frequently in chronic heart failure patients (11%) than hypertensive patients (1%) at doses of 20 to 40 mg.
Aggravation of cardiac failure occurred in 19% of patients with chronic heart failure compared to 21.
3% of placebo-treated patients in the SENIORS (Study on the Effects of Nebivolol Interventions on Outcomes and Rehospitalizations in Seniors with heart failure; n = 2128; median age = 75.
2 years).
Heart failure occurred in 0.
1% to 1% of hypertensive patients.
Very common (10% or more): Dizziness (up to 11%)Common (1% to 10%): Headache, paresthesia, somnolence, hypoesthesiaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): VertigoVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Syncope
Common (1% to 10%): Dyspnea, exacerbated dyspnea, common cold, coughing, bronchitis, pharyngitisUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): BronchospasmPostmarketing reports: Acute pulmonary edema
Common (1% to 10%): Increased sweatingUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Pruritus, erythematous rashVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Psoriasis aggravated Frequency not reported: Angioneurotic edema, urticariaPostmarketing reports: Rash, skin disorders
Common (1% to 10%): Myalgia, arthrosis, back pain
Common (1% to 10%): Constipation, diarrhea, nausea Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Dyspepsia, flatulence, vomiting Frequency not reported: Abdominal pain
Common (1% to 10%): Tiredness, drug intolerance, pain, injury, fatigueFrequency not reported: Asthenia
Common (1% to 10%): Nervousness Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Nightmares, depression, insomnia, anxiety
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Impotence
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Impaired vision
Frequency not reported: Decreased platelet countPostmarketing reports: Thrombocytopenia
Frequency not reported: Increased BUNPostmarketing reports: Acute renal failure
Frequency not reported: Hypercholesterolemia, hyperuricemia, increased uric acid, increased triglycerides, decreased HDL cholesterol
Postmarketing reports: Abnormal hepatic function (e.
g.
, increased AST, ALT, and bilirubin)
Postmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity (e.
g.
, allergic vasculitis, angioedema, urticaria)
It is possible that some side effects of nebivolol may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
chest pain or discomfort
difficult or labored breathing
lightheadedness, dizziness, or fainting
rapid weight gain
shortness of breath
slow or irregular heartbeat
tightness in the chest
tingling of the hands or feet
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight gain or loss
wheezing
Absence of or decrease in body movement
anxiety
blue lips, fingernails, or skin
blurred vision
chills
cold sweats
coma
confusion
cool, pale skin
cough
decreased urine output
depression
dilated neck veins
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
dry mouth
extreme fatigue
fast heartbeat
headache
increased hunger
increased sweating
increased thirst
irregular, fast or slow, or shallow breathing
loss of appetite
mood changes
muscle pain or cramps
nausea or vomiting
nervousness
nightmares
noisy breathing
numbness in the hands, feet, or lips
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
troubled breathing
vomiting
weight gain
Mild headache
Diarrhea
rash
sleeplessness
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep