Common side effects of Nexplanon include: irregular menses and weight gain.
Other side effects include: depression and pain.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, etonogestrel (the active ingredient contained in Nexplanon) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking etonogestrel, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some etonogestrel side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Local side effects have included insertion site pain.
Dermatologic side effects have included acne.
General side effects have included weight increase, influenza-like symptoms, and pain.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included abdominal pain and nausea.
Genitourinary side effects have included bleeding irregularities, vaginitis, dysmenorrhea, and leukorrhea.
Nervous system side effects have included headache, dizziness,and nervousness.
Psychiatric side effects have included emotional liability and depression.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included back pain.
Respiratory side effects have included sinusitis, pharyngitis, and upper respiratory tract infection.
It is possible that some side effects of Nexplanon may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Breast pain
chills
cough
diarrhea
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
joint pain
loss of appetite
muscle aches and pain
nausea
runny nose
shivering
sore throat
sweating
trouble sleeping
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site
bloating
blurred vision or other changes in vision
breast discharge
breast enlargement
burning while urinating
difficult or painful urination
difficulty with breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
headache, severe and throbbing
hives
itching
lumps in the breasts
nervousness
noisy breathing
painful or tender cysts in the breasts
pounding in the ears
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
shortness of breath
skin rash
slow or fast heartbeat
stomach or pelvic discomfort, aching, or heaviness
swelling of the hands, ankles, feet, or lower legs
tightness in the chest
wheezing
Collection of blood under the skin at the injection site
deep, dark purple bruise at the injection site
Back pain
blemishes on the skin, pimples
body aches or pain
crying
depersonalization
discouragement
dysphoria
ear congestion
euphoria
feeling sad or empty
hoarseness
increased clear or white vaginal discharge
increased weight
irregular bleeding cycle
irritability
itching of the vagina or genital area
light vaginal bleeding between regular menstrual periods
loss of interest or pleasure
loss of voice
mental depression
nasal congestion
pain, cramps, or heavy menstrual bleeding
pain during sexual intercourse
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
paranoia
quick to react or overreact emotionally
rapidly changing moods
stomach pain
tender, swollen glands in the neck
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
trouble concentrating
voice changes
Abdominal or stomach bloating and cramping
abnormal ejaculation
abnormal or decreased touch sensation
acid or sour stomach
belching
bone pain
burning feeling in the chest or stomach
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
difficulty with moving
dull ache or feeling of pressure or heaviness in the legs
earache, redness, or swelling in the ear
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
feeling of vaginal pressure
feeling of warmth
hair loss or thinning of the hair
heartburn
inability to have or keep an erection
increased appetite
increased hair growth on the forehead, back, arms, and legs
indigestion
itching skin near damaged veins
lack or loss of strength
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
muscle cramping or stiffness
passing gas
pelvic pain
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally upper chest
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sleeplessness
sneezing
stomach upset or pain
stuffy nose
swollen joints
tenderness in the stomach area
unable to sleep
vaginal burning or pain
weight loss