More frequently reported side effects include: asthenia, headache, pedal edema, and flushing.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, nicardipine may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking nicardipine, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking nicardipine, get emergency help immediately:
Some nicardipine side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Side effects of nicardipine were generally mild and transient.
Most were expected consequences of vasodilation.
Therapy was discontinued in approximately 9% to 12% of patients, primarily due to hypotension, headache, and tachycardia.
Rare cases of angina pectoris associated with nicardipine have been reported.
These cases may be due to a coronary artery "steal phenomenon" secondary to coronary vasodilation or increased myocardial oxygen demand secondary to increased heart rate.
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypotension (up to 8%), tachycardia (up to 5%), and angina pectoris.
Atrioventricular block, ST segment depression, inverted T wave, deep vein thrombophlebitis, and at least one case of profound sinus bradycardia have been reported with intravenous nicardipine.
Increased angina (5.
6%), vasodilatation (4.
7%), palpitations (up to 4.
1%), postural hypotension (up to 0.
9%), sustained tachycardia (0.
8%), abnormal ECG (0.
6%), chest pain, atypical chest pain, peripheral vascular disorder, and ventricular extrasystoles have been reported with oral nicardipine.
Sinus node dysfunction, myocardial infarction, atrial fibrillation, exertional hypotension, pericarditis, heart block, cerebral ischemia, and ventricular tachycardia (any of which may be due to disease progression) have been observed in patients on chronic therapy with oral nicardipine.
A case of erythromelalgia (paroxysmal burning or throbbing of the skin) associated with nicardipine has been reported.
The dose of nicardipine SR for a 74-year-old man with angina pectoris was increased over a 2-week period from 30 mg BID to 60 mg BID.
One week later the patient suffered two episodes of severe generalized tonic and clonic muscular contractions.
There was no loss of bladder control or loss of consciousness.
The symptoms were controlled by IV diazepam.
Diltiazem was substituted and his symptoms never recurred.
The patient refused rechallenge.
The authors of this case report speculated whether some calcium channel blockers adversely affect calcium-mediated neurotransmission.
Nervous system side effects have included headache (up to 21%) and tinnitus.
Hypertonia and ear disorder have been reported with intravenous nicardipine.
Dizziness (up to 6.
9%), somnolence (up to 1.
4%), paresthesia (1%), syncope (0.
8%), insomnia (0.
6%), tremor (0.
6%), vertigo, and hyperkinesia have been reported with oral nicardipine.
A single case of severe dyskinesia has been associated with nicardipine SR.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea/vomiting (up to 7%) and dyspepsia (up to 1.
5%).
Dry mouth (up to 1.
4%), constipation (0.
6%), and sore throat have been reported with oral nicardipine.
A case of parotitis associated with nicardipine has been reported.
Noncompliance due to nausea and vomiting has been reported.
Other side effects associated with intravenous nicardipine have included fever and neck pain.
Pedal edema (up to 8%), asthenia (up to 5.
8%), flushing (up to 9.
7%), other edema (up to 1%), malaise (0.
6%), pain (0.
6%), infection, hot flashes, and face edema have been reported with oral nicardipine.
Dermatologic side effects associated with oral nicardipine have included rash (up to 6%) and increased sweating (0.
6%).
Metabolic side effects associated with intravenous nicardipine have included hypophosphatemia and peripheral edema.
Musculoskeletal side effects associated with oral nicardipine have included myalgia (1%) and arthralgia.
Respiratory side effects associated with intravenous nicardipine have included respiratory disorder and at least one case of pulmonary edema.
Dyspnea, rhinitis, and sinusitis have been reported with oral nicardipine.
At least one case of pulmonary edema during tocolytic therapy with nicardipine has been reported.
The patient developed pulmonary edema 3 days after starting intravenous nicardipine (2 mg/hr).
Symptoms included dyspnea, orthopnea, cough, and tachycardia which rapidly responded to diuretic and oxygen therapy.
Psychiatric side effects have included confusion.
Nervousness (0.
6%), abnormal dreams (0.
4%), depression, and anxiety have been reported with oral nicardipine.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included angioedema, wheezing, and rash in patients with suspected hypersensitivity reactions.
Allergic reactions have been reported with oral nicardipine.
Genitourinary side effects have included increased urinary frequency.
Nocturia (0.
4%) and impotence have been reported with oral nicardipine.
Hematologic side effects associated with intravenous nicardipine have included thrombocytopenia.
Hepatic side effects associated with oral nicardipine have included abnormal liver chemistries.
Ocular side effects associated with intravenous nicardipine have included conjunctivitis.
Abnormal vision and blurred vision have been reported with oral nicardipine.
Endocrinologic side effects have rarely included cases of hyperglycemia.
One study has shown that nicardipine can cause deterioration in glucose metabolism in hypertensive patients with noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
A small study (9 patients) has shown that the use of nicardipine to control blood pressure in hypertensive patients with noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus is associated with progressively and significantly elevated hemoglobin A1C concentrations.
Rare cases of hyperglycemia associated with nicardipine are reported.
This is thought to be due to inhibition of pancreatic beta islet cellular insulin production and secretion.
The Japanese have used some calcium channel blockers to reverse the frequency and severity of hypoglycemic symptoms in patients with insulinoma.
It is possible that some side effects of nicardipine may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
intravenous solution
Arm, back, or jaw pain
chest pain or discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
fast or irregular heartbeat
nausea
palpitations
shortness of breath
sweating
swelling of the legs
Shakiness
swelling
Blurred vision
cold hands and feet
cold sweats
confusion
cough or hoarseness
difficulty swallowing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly
extra heartbeat
fever or chills
hives
increase in frequency of urination
itching
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
skin rash
unusual tiredness or weakness
wheezing
Sleepiness
slurred speech
Feeling of warmth
headache
lack or loss of strength
redness of the face, neck, arms and occasionally, upper chest
Acid or sour stomach
belching
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
difficulty in moving
dry mouth
heartburn
indigestion
joint pain
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pains or stiffness
rash
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
swollen joints
Changes in vision
constipation
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in ears
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
difficult or labored breathing
discouragement
fear or nervousness
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
feeling sad or empty
hearing loss
inability to have or keep an erection
increase in body movements
irritability
lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
nervousness
pain or tenderness around eyes and cheekbones
runny nose
sensation of spinning
sneezing
sore throat
stuffy nose
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping