As well as its needed effects, nitazoxanide may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking nitazoxanide, check with your doctor immediately:
Some nitazoxanide side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Gastrointestinal side effects have included abdominal pain (6.
6% to 7.
8%), diarrhea (2.
1% to 4.
2%), and nausea (3%).
Side effects occurring in less than 1% of patients have included vomiting, anorexia, flatulence, dyspepsia, constipation, dry mouth, and thirst.
The incidence of gastrointestinal side effects may be dose related.
Abdominal pain, diarrhea and discolored urine occurred more often in subjects receiving higher doses (1 gram twice daily).
Nervous system side effects have included headache (3.
1%).
Dizziness, somnolence, insomnia, tremor, and hypesthesia have been reported by less than 1% of the patients.
Adverse effects affecting the body as a whole have included asthenia, fever, pain (pelvic/back), flu syndrome, ear ache, and chills in less than 1% of patients.
Metabolic side effects have included increased creatinine and SGPT in less than 1% of patients.
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus, rash, and sweat in less than 1% of patients.
Ocular side effects have included pale yellow eye discoloration (<1%).
Respiratory side effects have included epistaxis, rhinitis, lung disease, and pharyngitis.
Genitourinary side effects have included discolored urine, dysuria, amenorrhea, metrorrhagia, and edema labia.
In general, side effects have been mild and transient in nature.
The most frequent side effects have included abdominal pain, diarrhea, vomiting, and headache, and the rates of occurrence were not significantly different from placebo.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included myalgia, leg cramps, and spontaneous bone fracture.
Cardiovascular side effects have included tachycardia, syncope, and hypertension.
Hematologic side effects have included anemia and leukocytosis.
Renal side effects have included kidney pain.
It is possible that some side effects of nitazoxanide may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Diarrhea
Abdominal or stomach pain
headache
nausea
urine changes
Dizziness
heartburn
hives or welts, itching, or skin rash
redness of the skin
trouble breathing
vomiting