Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, metronidazole topical (the active ingredient contained in Noritate) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some metronidazole topical side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Local side effects associated with topical use have included skin irritation, dryness, transient redness, burning, and stinging.
Dryness (mild: ; moderate: ; severe: ), scaling (mild: ; moderate: ; severe: ), pruritus (mild: ; moderate: ; severe: ), and stinging/burning (mild: ; moderate: ; severe: ) have been reported with the  gel.
Application site reaction and local allergic reaction have been reported with the  cream and  lotion, respectively.
At times, the local effects of metronidazole may be difficult to distinguish from the clinical characteristics of acne rosacea.
Genitourinary side effects associated with the  vaginal gel have included vaginal discharge , symptomatic Candida cervicitis/vaginitis , vulva/vaginal irritative symptoms , pelvic discomfort , uterine cramping, and vaginal or vulvar burning, irritation, or itching.
Urinary tract infection  and vaginal mycosis  have been reported with the  gel.
Dyspareunia, dysuria, cystitis, polyuria, incontinence, darkened urine, and overgrowth of Candida in the vagina have been reported with oral or parenteral administration of metronidazole.
Gastrointestinal side effects associated with the  vaginal gel have included gastrointestinal discomfort , nausea and/or vomiting , unusual taste , diarrhea/loose stools , decreased appetite , abdominal bloating/gas (less than ), dry mouth (less than ), abdominal cramping, cramps/pain, and metallic or bad taste.
Nausea and dry mouth have been reported with the  cream.
Nausea and metallic taste have been reported with topical administration of metronidazole.
Abdominal discomfort, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, unpleasant metallic taste, anorexia, epigastric distress, abdominal cramping, constipation, "furry" tongue, glossitis, stomatitis, pancreatitis, proctitis, and modified taste of alcoholic beverages have been reported with oral or parenteral administration of metronidazole.
Nervous system side effects associated with the  vaginal gel have included headache  and dizziness .
Headache  has been reported with the  gel.
Tingling or numbness of extremities and headache have been reported with the  cream.
Tingling or numbness of extremities has been reported with topical administration of metronidazole.
Headache, dizziness, syncope, ataxia, convulsive seizures, peripheral neuropathy, vertigo, incoordination, weakness, and insomnia have been reported with oral or parenteral administration of metronidazole.
Peripheral neuropathy has been associated with the  gel during postmarketing experience.
Respiratory side effects associated with the  gel have included nasopharyngitis , upper respiratory tract infection , sinusitis , bronchitis , and nasal congestion .
A -year-old female with possible vaginal infection experienced TTP coincident with metronidazole therapy.
She presented to the hospital with chest pain and blood in her urine three days after she was administered metronidazole  vaginal gel.
She was diagnosed with TTP based on her laboratory and clinical findings.
Her condition resolved after treatment.
Hematological side effects associated with the  vaginal gel have included increased/decreased white blood cell counts  and at least one case of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP).
Reversible neutropenia and reversible thrombocytopenia have been reported with oral or parenteral administration of metronidazole.
Cardiovascular side effects associated with the  gel have included hypertension .
Flattening of the T-wave may be seen in electrocardiographic tracings during oral or parenteral administration of metronidazole.
Dermatologic side effects associated with the  vaginal gel have included generalized itching or rash (less than ).
Contact dermatitis  and dry skin  have been reported with the  gel.
Condition aggravated, acne, severe flare of comedonal acne, rosacea aggravated, skin irritation, and rash have been reported with the  cream.
Skin discomfort (burning and stinging), erythema, skin irritation, pruritus, and worsening of rosacea have been reported in less than  of patients using the  cream.
Erythema , contact dermatitis , pruritus , skin discomfort (burning and stinging; ), and worsening of rosacea  have been reported with the  lotion.
Skin irritation, transient skin erythema, mild skin dryness, and bullous fixed drug eruption have been reported with topical administration of metronidazole.
Other side effects associated with the  vaginal gel have included unspecified cramping , thirsty (less than ), fatigue (less than ), and darkened urine (less than ).
Influenza  has been reported with the  gel.
A sense of pelvic pressure has been reported with oral or parenteral administration of metronidazole.
Psychiatric side effects associated with the  vaginal gel have included depression (less than ).
Confusion, irritability, depression, and decreased libido have been reported with oral or parenteral administration of metronidazole.
Musculoskeletal side effects associated with the  gel have included back pain .
Oncologic side effects associated with the  gel have included basal cell carcinoma .
Hypersensitivity side effects associated with the  cream have included allergic reactions.
Hypersensitivity reactions associated with oral or parenteral administration of metronidazole have included urticaria, erythematous rash, flushing, nasal congestion, fever, pruritus, fleeting joint pains, and dryness of the mouth, vagina, or vulva.
Ocular side effects associated with the  cream have included eye irritation.
Watering or tearing may occur when metronidazole topical (the active ingredient contained in Noritate) is applied too close to the eyes.
It is possible that some side effects of Noritate may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
vaginal cream, vaginal gel/jelly, vaginal suppository
Dry skin
redness or other signs of skin irritation not present before use of this medicine
stinging or burning of the skin
watering of eyes 
Metallic taste in the mouth
nausea 
tingling or numbness of arms, legs, hands, or feet 