Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, polyethylene glycol 3350 with electrolytes (the active ingredient contained in NuLYTELY) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking polyethylene glycol 3350 with electrolytes, check with your doctor immediately:
Some polyethylene glycol 3350 with electrolytes side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most common adverse events were abdominal distension, anal discomfort, thirst, nausea, and abdominal pain.
Since diarrhea is considered part of the efficacy of this product, it was not defined as an adverse reaction.
Very common (10% or more): Abdominal distension (59.
8%), anal discomfort (52%), nausea (47.
3%), abdominal pain (39.
1%), vomiting (12.
8%)Common (1% to 10%): Upper abdominal pain, dyspepsiaFrequency not reported: Upper gastrointestinal bleeding from a Mallory-Weiss tear, esophageal perforation, borborygmi, flatulence
Very common (10% or more): Hunger (70.
8%)Common (1% to 10%): Hypokalemia, hyperphosphatemiaFrequency not reported: Electrolyte disturbances, hyperkalemia
Very common (10% or more): Rigors (33.
7%), malaise (26.
6%)Frequency not reported: Peripheral edema
Very common (10% or more): Dizziness (18.
1%)Common (1% to 10%): Headache
Very common (10% or more): Sleep disorder (34.
9%)
Frequency not reported: Anaphylactic reactionPostmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylaxis, rash, angioedema, urticaria, lip and facial swelling, dyspnea, chest tightness, throat tightness)
Frequency not reported: Asystole
Frequency not reported: Urticaria, dermatitis
Frequency not reported: Rhinorrhea, acute pulmonary edema, acute pulmonary edema after aspirating the PEG-based preparation
It is possible that some side effects of NuLYTELY may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
oral powder for solution, oral powder for suspension
Full or bloated feeling
pain in the upper stomach
pressure in the stomach
stomach pain
swelling of abdominal or stomach area
vomiting
Coma
confusion
convulsions
decreased urine output
dizziness
dry mouth
fast or irregular heartbeat
headache
increased thirst
loss of appetite
muscle pain or cramps
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, fingertips, lips, or mouth
shortness of breath
swelling of the face, ankles, or hands
unusual tiredness or weakness
Burning, itching, or pain around the anus
difficulty with sleeping
feeling unusually cold
general feeling of discomfort or illness
hunger
nausea
shivering
thirst
Acid or sour stomach
belching
heartburn
indigestion
stomach discomfort or upset