As well as its needed effects, ethinyl estradiol / etonogestrel may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some ethinyl estradiol / etonogestrel side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Genitourinary side effects reported by  to  of women include vaginitis and leukorrhea.
The most common events leading to discontinuation in  to  of women include foreign body sensation, coital problems, and device expulsion.
Vaginal/cervical erosion or ulceration in women using ethinyl estradiol and etonogestrel vaginal ring has been rarely reported.
In some cases, the ring adhered to vaginal tissue, necessitating removal by a healthcare provider.
There have been rare reports of inadvertent insertions of ethinyl estradiol and etonogestrel vaginal ring into the urinary bladder, which required cystoscopic removal.
Healthcare providers should assess for ring insertion into the urinary bladder in ethinyl estradiol and etonogestrel vaginal ring users who present with persistent urinary symptoms and are unable to locate the ring.
Respiratory side effects reported by  to  of women include upper respiratory tract infection and sinusitis.
Gastrointestinal side effects reported by  to  of women include nausea.
Combination contraceptives have been associated with reports of abdominal cramping, bloating, and vomiting.
General side effects reported by  to  of women include weight gain and headache.
The most common adverse effect leading to discontinuation in  to  of women was emotional lability and weight gain.
Hematologic side effects associated with the use of combination hormonal contraceptives include thromboembolic disorders.
Cardiovascular side effects reported with the use of combination hormonal contraceptives include hypertension and myocardial infarction.
Hepatic side effects reported with the use of combination hormonal contraceptives include hepatic adenomas and benign liver tumors.
Ocular side effects reported with the use of combination hormonal contraceptives include retinal thrombosis, changes in corneal curvature (steepening), and intolerance to contact lenses.
It is possible that some side effects of NuvaRing may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal or stomach fullness
abdominal or stomach pain or tenderness usually after eating a meal
blurred vision
changes in skin color
chest pain or discomfort
confusion
constipation
diarrhea
dizziness
gaseous abdominal or stomach pain
headache
inability to speak
nausea
nervousness
numbness of the hands
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
pain
pains in the chest, groin, or legs, especially calves of the legs
pounding in the ears
prominent superficial veins over the affected area with tenderness and warmth
recurrent fever
seizures
severe headaches of sudden onset
slow or fast heartbeat
sudden loss of coordination
sudden onset of slurred speech
sudden vision changes
sudden and severe weakness in the arm or leg on one side 
sweating
swelling of the foot or leg on one side of the body
temporary blindness
vomiting or vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin
Menstrual changes
nausea
vaginal bleeding
vomiting
Cough
fever
headache
itching of the vagina or genital area
pain during sexual intercourse
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
tightness of the chest
weight gain
Crying
depersonalization
false or unusual sense of well-being
hoarseness
mental depression
paranoia
quick to react or overreact emotionally
rapidly changing moods, mild feeling of sadness or discouragement that come and go
Absent, missed, or irregular menstrual periods
bloody vaginal discharge
brown, blotchy spots on exposed skin
chills
clay-colored stools
contact lenses intolerance
dark urine
decreased amount or quality of milk
dry mouth
dry skin
fruit-like or unpleasant breath odor
increased hunger
increased thirst
increased urination
loss of appetite
medium to heavy, irregular vaginal bleeding between regular monthly periods, which may require the use of a pad or a tampon
rash
soreness, swelling, or discharge from the breast or breasts
trouble getting pregnant
unexplained weight loss
unusual tiredness or weakness