As well as its needed effects, isoniazid (the active ingredient contained in Nydrazid) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking isoniazid, check with your doctor immediately:
Some isoniazid side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Dark urine and yellowing of the eyes or skin (signs of liver problems) are more likely to occur in patients over  years of age.
Overdose of isoniazid (the active ingredient contained in Nydrazid) has been associated with uncontrollable seizures.
Dialysis may be required to decrease isoniazid blood levels, thereby controlling seizures.
Seizures, lethargy, and confusion have also been reported in patients with chronic renal failure.
Other patients at risk for neurotoxicity include the malnourished and alcoholics.
Optic neuritis has also been reported in patients on hemodialysis.
Peripheral neuropathy has been observed and occurs frequently, especially at doses greater than  mg daily.
Neuropathy may be prevented or attenuated by coadministration of pyridoxine  to  mg daily.
Other neurologic reactions, although rare, have included visual disturbances, ataxia, and seizures.
Hepatitis has been reported in less than  of patients receiving isoniazid (the active ingredient contained in Nydrazid) alone.
Jaundice is usually preceded by a prodromal illness with fatigue, nausea, malaise, abdominal pain, and anorexia.
Asymptomatic increases in liver function tests may occur.
Isoniazid should be discontinued if hepatotoxicity occurs, usually defined as SGOT greater than four times normal.
The mechanism of hepatic injury is unknown but may be related to the acetyl metabolite of isoniazid.
Patients exhibiting hepatotoxicity are more likely to be fast acetylators of isoniazid.
Eight cases of severe hepatitis resulting in death or transplantation have been evaluated by the Department of Health of New York.
Duration of isoniazid use before onset of hepatitis ranged from  to  days, and seven patients continued use of isoniazid at least  days after onset of symptoms.
Massive hepatic necrosis was a common finding and cholestasis was present in two of five cases.
The risk is age related with a greater occurrence reported in patients who are  years or older.
The risk of hepatitis is also increased in patients who consume alcohol daily, in women, and in minorities.
In a study of  women beginning isoniazid preventive therapy during pregnancy or postpartum,  cases of isoniazid-induced hepatitis were identified, including two fatalities.
In another review of deaths due to isoniazid, eight of  women between  and  years old were within one year postpartum.
In general, death due to isoniazid hepatotoxicity occurs more frequently in women than men.
Fulminate hepatitis, characterized by jaundice, disorders of consciousness and elevated serum transaminases up to  times the upper limit of normal, has occasionally occurred in patients receiving isoniazid with rifampin.
Rifampin, by virtue of its enzyme-inducing activity, likely increases the reactive metabolite of isoniazid thought to be responsible for the hepatotoxicity associated with isoniazid.
Monthly monitoring and interviewing of patients should take place.
Patients should be fully informed regarding the risk of hepatotoxicity associated with isoniazid, educated about the signs and symptoms of liver damage, and instructed to contact their physician immediately if they develop signs or symptoms.
Hematologic abnormalities such as anemia have been reported.
Anemia is generally reversible following discontinuation of isoniazid (the active ingredient contained in Nydrazid)   Agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, and eosinophilia have rarely been reported.
Several cases have been reported of pure red cell aplasia attributable to isoniazid.
Abnormalities resolved following drug discontinuation.
Hypersensitivity reactions including drug fever, rash, lymphadenopathy, vasculitis, and urticaria have been reported but are rare.
These reactions generally subside following drug discontinuation.
Isoniazid-induced lupus-like reactions have been reported with an incidence of approximately .
However, as many as  of patients on this drug may develop positive antinuclear antibodies.
Drug discontinuation is recommended if a lupus-like reaction occurs.
Psychosis, depression, and aggression have been rarely reported with isoniazid (the active ingredient contained in Nydrazid) therapy.
Some patients with preexisting schizophrenia have experienced exacerbations when isoniazid was started.
Gastrointestinal adverse effects have included nausea, vomiting, and epigastric distress.
A few cases of pancreatitis have been reported.
Metabolic side effects such as pyridoxine deficiency and pellagra have been reported.
Isoniazid (the active ingredient contained in Nydrazid) induced hypocalcemia and hypophosphatemia has been observed and may be due to altered vitamin D metabolism.
Local irritation has been observed at the site of intramuscular injection of isoniazid (the active ingredient contained in Nydrazid) 
It is possible that some side effects of Nydrazid may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Clumsiness or unsteadiness
dark urine 
loss of appetite
nausea or vomiting
numbness, tingling, burning, or pain in hands and feet
unusual tiredness or weakness 
yellow eyes or skin
Blurred vision or loss of vision, with or without eye pain
convulsions (seizures)
fever and sore throat
joint pain
mental depression
mood or other mental changes
skin rash
unusual bleeding or bruising 
Diarrhea
stomach pain
Irritation at the place of injection