Common side effects of Ocaliva include: severe pruritus, eye pruritus, pruritic rash, pruritus, pruritus ani, skin rash, vulvovaginal pruritus, decreased hdl cholesterol, macular eruption, maculopapular rash, miliaria, papular rash, urticaria, and pruritus of ear.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, obeticholic acid (the active ingredient contained in Ocaliva) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking obeticholic acid, check with your doctor immediately:
Some obeticholic acid side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most commonly reported side effects include pruritus, fatigue, and abdominal pain/discomfort.
Pruritus occurred most frequently in patients given  mg than in patients titrated to  mg and in those given placebo; these patients were more likely to develop pruritus within the first month.
Discontinuation due to pruritus was also more common in patients given  mg.
Severe pruritus includes skin eruptions, prurigo, pruritus, pruritus generalized, eye pruritus, ear pruritus, anal pruritus, vulvovaginal pruritus, and rash pruritus.
Rash includes urticaria, rash, rash macular/papular/maculopapular, heat rash, and urticaria cholinergic.
Very common ( or more): Severe pruritus (up to ), rash (up to )Common ( to ): EczemaFrequency not reported: Skin eruptions, prurigo, pruritus generalized, rash pruritus, urticaria, rash macular/papular/maculopapular, heat rash, cholinergic urticaria
Very common ( or more): Fatigue (up to )Common ( to ): PyrexiaFrequency not reported: Tiredness, asthenia, ear pruritus
Fatigue includes fatigue, tiredness, and asthenia.
Very common ( or more): HDL-C reduction (up to )
Very common ( or more): Abdominal pain/discomfort (up to )Common ( to ): Oropharyngeal pain, constipationFrequency not reported: Ascites, variceal bleeding, upper/lower abdominal pain, abdominal tenderness, gastrointestinal pain, anal pruritus
Abdominal pain/discomfort includes upper/lower abdominal pain, abdominal pain, abdominal discomfort, abdominal tenderness, and gastrointestinal pain.
Common ( to ): Peripheral edema, palpitations
Dizziness includes dizziness, syncope, and presyncope.
Common ( to ): DizzinessFrequency not reported: Hepatic encephalopathy, syncope, presyncope
Common ( to ): Thyroid function abnormalityFrequency not reported: Decreased free thyroxine, increased blood thyroid stimulating hormone, hypothyroidism
Thyroid function abnormality includes thyroxine free decreased, blood thyroid stimulating hormone increased, and hypothyroidism.
Common ( to ): Arthralgia
Frequency not reported: Liver-related adverse reactions (ascites, hepatic encephalopathy, variceal bleeding)
Frequency not reported: Vulvovaginal pruritus
Frequency not reported: Eye pruritus
It is possible that some side effects of Ocaliva may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Fever
severe itching skin
Abdominal or stomach pain
chills
clay-colored stools
dark urine
dizziness
headache
loss of appetite
nausea
rash
stomach pain and bloating
unpleasant breath odor
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin
Abdominal or stomach discomfort
bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
difficulty with moving
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
muscle pain or stiffness
pain in the joints
rapid weight gain
sore throat
tingling of the hands or feet
unusual weight gain or loss
Skin rash, encrusted, scaly and oozing