Commonly reported side effects of fluoxetine/olanzapine include: asthenia, drowsiness, edema, eyelid edema, facial edema, facial swelling, hypersomnia, increased serum alanine aminotransferase, increased serum aspartate aminotransferase, joint swelling, lethargy, localized edema, periorbital edema, peripheral edema, sedation, swelling of eye, weight gain, hyperprolactinemia, increased serum prolactin, increased serum triglycerides, anasarca, increased appetite, and xerostomia.
Other side effects include: abnormal hepatic function tests, abnormality in thinking, diarrhea, increased gamma-glutamyl transferase, increased liver enzymes, increased serum transaminases, pharyngitis, tremor, and amblyopia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Commonly reported side effects associated with fluoxetine-olanzapine treatment in short-term controlled studies at an incidence of at least  and double that of placebo were disturbance in attention, dry mouth, fatigue, hypersomnia, increased appetite, peripheral edema, sedation, somnolence, tremor, blurred vision, and increased weight.
Statistically significant differences in the incidence of weight gain, prolactin elevation, fatigue, and dizziness have been observed in a single -week randomized, double-blind, fixed dose study comparing  mg,  mg, and  mg olanzapine in patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder.
Side effects associated with treatment discontinuation were increased weight and sedation.
In a single, -week, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial of fluoxetine-olanzapine for the treatment of bipolar I depression in patients aged  to  years, the side effects that lead to discontinuation that occurred at an incidence of at least  and greater than that of the placebo group were increased weight, suicidal ideation, bipolar disorder, and somnolence.
Antidepressants may have a role in inducing worsening of depression and the emergence of suicidality in certain patients during the early phases of treatment.
An increased risk of suicidal thinking and behavior in children, adolescents, and young adults (aged  to  years) with major depressive disorder (MDD) and other psychiatric disorders has been reported with short-term use of antidepressant drugs.
Adult and pediatric patients receiving antidepressants for MDD, as well as for psychiatric and nonpsychiatric indications, have reported symptoms that may be precursors to emerging suicidality, including anxiety, agitation, panic attacks, insomnia, irritability, hostility, aggressiveness, impulsivity, akathisia, hypomania, and mania.
Causality has not been established.
Placebo-controlled clinical trials in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis showed a significantly increased risk of death in olanzapine-treated patients  compared to placebo-treated patients .
Anxiety, restlessness, and suicidal ideation were reported as a treatment-emergent side effect in an -week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial in pediatric bipolar I depression in patients aged  to  years.
Common ( to ): Nervousness, restlessness, thinking abnormal Uncommon ( to ): Depersonalization, emotional lability, euphoria Rare (less than ): Withdrawal syndromeFrequency not reported: Bruxism, violent behaviors
Very common ( or more): Somnolence Common ( to ): Disturbance in attention, taste perversion, tremor Uncommon ( to ): Ataxia, coma, dysarthria, hypokinesia, movement disorder, myoclonusRare (less than ): HyperkinesiaFrequency not reported: Dystonias, headache
Dystonias may occur in the first few days of treatment; males and younger age groups appear to be at a greater risk for acute dystonia.
The frequency and severity of symptoms appear greater with high potency and at higher doses of first generation antipsychotic drugs, but may occur at low doses.
One retrospective study of  outpatients with Parkinson's disease treated with  mg of fluoxetine a day reported that three patients experienced worsening of parkinsonism, two patients experienced improvement of parkinsonism, and  patients experienced no change.
Another small study reported a series of four patients who experienced worsening of parkinsonism during treatment with fluoxetine.
Potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome has been reported with SSRIs and SNRIs as monotherapy, but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs and drugs that impair the metabolism of serotonin.
Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS), a potentially fatal symptom complex, has been reported in connection to treatment with antipsychotic drugs, including olanzapine.
A number of case reports have implicated fluoxetine in causing seizures.
Twelve of  patients experienced convulsions during pre-marketing testing.
A case of dose-dependent exacerbation of preexisting, mild restless legs syndrome (which ultimately required discontinuation of fluoxetine) has been reported.
Somnolence and tremor were reported as a treatment-emergent side effect in an -week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial in pediatric bipolar I depression in patients aged  to  years.
Numerous cases of hyponatremia have been reported following treatment with an SSRI.
Risk factors for the development of SSRI- associated hyponatremia including advanced age, female gender, concomitant use of diuretics, low body weight, and lower baseline serum sodium levels have been identified.
Hyponatremia tends to develop within the first few weeks of treatment (range  to  days) and typically resolves within  weeks (range  hours to  weeks) after therapy has been discontinued with some patients requiring treatment.
The proposed mechanism for the development of hyponatremia involves SIADH via release of antidiuretic hormone.
Hyperglycemia has been reported with olanzapine alone as well as in combination with fluoxetine.
In an analysis of  controlled clinical studies,  of which were placebo controlled, with treatment duration up to  weeks, fluoxetine-olanzapine was associated with a greater mean change in random glucose compared to placebo (+ mg/dL versus - mg/dL).
The difference in mean changes was greater in patients with evidence of glucose dysregulation at baseline.
Epidemiological studies suggest an increased risk of treatment-emergent hyperglycemia in patients treated with atypical antipsychotics.
The association between atypical antipsychotic therapy and increases in glucose levels appears greater with olanzapine than some other atypical antipsychotic agents.
Elevated uric acid, low albumin, low bicarbonate, and low inorganic phosphorus were observed at a statistically significant greater frequency in the fluoxetine-olanzapine group compared to the placebo group in adult clinical studies.
Clinically meaningful increases in total cholesterol and triglyceride levels, sometimes greater than  mg/dL have also been observed in adults.
Clinically significant weight gain across all baseline BMI categories has been reported in clinical trials with fluoxetine-olanzapine.
An analysis of  controlled clinical studies ( of which were placebo-controlled) reported that, after a median exposure of eight weeks,  of patients treated with fluoxetine-olanzapine had gained at least  of their baseline weight.
Long-term studies with fluoxetine-olanzapine (n=), where patients were treated with this combination for at least  weeks, showed a mean weight gain of  kg.
Increased weight, appetite, blood triglycerides, and cholesterol were reported as treatment-emergent side effects in an  week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial in pediatric bipolar I depression in patients aged  to  years.
High fasting total cholesterol, high fasting LDL cholesterol, and high fasting triglycerides were observed at statistically significant greater frequencies in the fluoxetine-olanzapine group compared to the placebo group.
Very common ( or more): High fasting LDL cholesterol, high fasting triglycerides, high fasting total cholesterol, low bicarbonate, increased appetite, increased weightCommon ( to ): Elevated uric acid, low albumin, low inorganic phosphorus, weight lossRare (less than ): GoutFrequency not reported: Hyperglycemia, increased creatine phosphokinase, random triglyceride levels of  mg/dL or more
The mean standing pulse rate in patients treated with fluoxetine-olanzapine was reduced by  beats/minute.
QTcF interval prolongation of  milliseconds or more for males and  milliseconds for females was reported at an incidence of at least  in clinical trials.
The mean increase in QTc interval was reported as significantly greater in fluoxetine-olanzapine treated patients than placebo-treated patients, olanzapine-treated, and fluoxetine-treated patients.
Mean increases in QTcF interval of  milliseconds was observed at a statistically significant greater frequency in the fluoxetine-olanzapine group compared to the placebo group in a single -week randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial for bipolar I depression in children and adolescents aged  to  years.
One placebo-controlled study has suggested that fluoxetine has no effects on intraventricular conduction.
Other case reports have suggested that fluoxetine may rarely provoke dysrhythmias.
Other conflicting case reports have suggested that fluoxetine may have a propensity to provoke and alleviate vasoconstriction.
Several cases of unexpected death occurring shortly after initiation of fluoxetine therapy have been reported in elderly patients with multiple medical problems.
In one case report, QTc prolongation and torsades de pointes developed in an elderly woman  months after starting therapy with fluoxetine  mg daily.
The QTc interval returned to normal following discontinuation of fluoxetine.
Four additional cases suggesting fluoxetine-associated QTc prolongation or torsades de pointes have been reported.
Very common ( or more): EdemaCommon ( to ): Generalized edema, vasodilatationFrequency not reported: Bradycardia, hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, tachycardia Postmarketing reports: Deep vein thrombosis
Accidental overdose was reported as a treatment-emergent side effect in an -week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial in pediatric bipolar I depression in patients aged  to  years.
Very common ( or more): FatigueCommon ( to ): Asthenia, chills, neck rigidity, pain, pyrexiaRare (less than ): DeathFrequency not reported: Body temperature dysregulation
Common ( to ): Breast pain, erectile dysfunction, menorrhagia, urinary frequency, urinary incontinenceUncommon ( to ): Amenorrhea, female lactation, hypomenorrhea, metrorrhagia, urinary retention, urinary urgency, impaired urinationRare (less than ): Breast engorgement, increased libidoFrequency not reported: Abnormal ejaculation, anorgasmia, decreased libido, dysuria, gynecological bleeding
Urinary retention and galactorrhea have been reported with other SSRIs.
The estimates of the incidence of untoward sexual experience and performance may underestimate their actual incidence, partly because patients and physicians may be reluctant to discuss this issue.
In placebo-controlled clinical trials ejaculation disorder (primarily ejaculation delay) was reported as a treatment-emergent side effect at an incidence of  and at least twice the incidence in placebo-treated male patients.
Dysmenorrhea was reported as a treatment-emergent side effect in an -week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial in pediatric bipolar I depression in patients aged  to  years.
Common ( to ): EcchymosisUncommon ( to ): Alopecia, dry skin, pruritusRare (less than ): Exfoliative dermatitis, purpura Frequency not reported: Erythema multiforme, sweating
Approximately  of fluoxetine-treated patients have been reported to develop a skin reaction.
Very common ( or more): Elevated prolactinFrequency not reported: Diabetic coma
Elevated prolactin levels were observed at a statistically significant greater frequency in the fluoxetine-olanzapine group compared to the placebo group in adult clinical studies and also in a single -week randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial for bipolar I depression in children and adolescents aged  to  years.
A study of , antidepressant users has reported  times more upper GI bleeding episodes with the use of SSRIs relative to the population who did not receive antidepressant medications.
Upper gastrointestinal tract bleeding was observed in  times more frequently in patients receiving fluoxetine.
Dyspepsia was reported as a treatment-emergent side effect in an -week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial in pediatric bipolar I depression in patients aged  to  years.
Very common ( or more): Dry mouthCommon ( to ): Abdominal distension, diarrhea, flatulenceUncommon ( to ): Buccoglossal syndrome, gastritis, gastroenteritis, nausea and vomiting, peptic ulcer Rare (less than ): Gastrointestinal hemorrhage, intestinal obstruction, pancreatitisFrequency not reported: Esophageal ulcer
Common ( to ): Low hemoglobin, low lymphocytesUncommon ( to ): Anemia, thrombocytopeniaRare (less than ): LeukopeniaFrequency not reported: Aplastic anemia, neutropenia
Low lymphocytes and low hemoglobin were observed at a statistically significant greater frequency in the fluoxetine-olanzapine group compared to the placebo group in adult clinical studies
ALT levels reported to return to normal, or were decreasing, at last follow-up in the majority of patients who either continued or discontinued treatment with fluoxetine-olanzapine.
Low total bilirubin levels were observed at a statistically significant greater frequency in the fluoxetine-olanzapine group compared to the placebo group in adult clinical studies.
Elevated ALT and AST levels were observed at statistically significant greater frequencies in the fluoxetine-olanzapine group compared to the placebo group in a single -week randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial for bipolar I depression in children and adolescents aged  to  years.
Very common ( or more): Elevated ALT and AST, low total bilirubinCommon ( to ): Clinically significant ALT elevation less than  times the upper limit of normal (ULN), ALT elevations  times the ULN or more.
Rare (less than ): Bilirubinemia , liver fatty depositFrequency not reported: Cholestatic jaundice, increased alkaline phosphatase, jaundice Postmarketing reports: Cholestatic or mixed liver injury, hepatitis
Common ( to ): Photosensitivity reaction
Common ( to ): Arthralgia, musculoskeletal stiffness, pain in extremity Rare (less than ): OsteoporosisPostmarketing reports: Rhabdomyolysis
Epidemiological studies, primarily in patients aged  years or older, have shown an increased risk of bone fractures in patients receiving SSRIs or TCAs.
Back pain was reported as a treatment-emergent side effect in an -week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial in pediatric bipolar I depression in patients aged  to  years.
Common ( to ): Eye disordersUncommon ( to ): Abnormality of accommodation, dry eyes
Elevated urea nitrogen levels were observed at a statistically significant greater frequency in the fluoxetine-olanzapine group compared to the placebo group in adult clinical studies.
Glycosuria was reported at an incidence of  of patients treated with fluoxetine-olanzapine in an analysis of  controlled clinical studies, compared to  in the placebo group.
Common ( to ): Elevated urea nitrogen, glycosuriaRare (less than ): Increased creatinine
Common ( to ): SinusitisUncommon ( to ): Epistaxis, yawnRare (less than ): LaryngismusFrequency not reported: Eosinophilic pneumoniaPostmarketing reports: Pulmonary embolism
Bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
body aches or pain
confusion
congestion
cough
delusions
dementia
dryness or soreness of the throat
fever
hoarseness
rapid weight gain
runny nose
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
tender, swollen glands in the neck
tingling of the hands or feet
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
trouble with swallowing
unusual weight gain or loss
voice changes
Blurred vision
change in personality
change in vision
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty with sleeping
difficulty with speaking
dizziness
ear pain
headache
impaired vision
increase in body movements
loss of memory
nervousness
pounding in the ears
problems with memory
slow, fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
tightness in the chest
Inability to move the eyes
increased blinking or spasms of the eyelid
sticking out of the tongue
uncontrolled twisting movements of the neck, trunk, arms, or legs
unusual facial expressions
Bloody or black, tarry stools
constipation
severe stomach pain
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
Diarrhea
dry mouth
increased appetite
lack or loss of strength
weight gain
Change or problem with discharge of semen
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
difficulty with moving
inability to have or keep an erection
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
muscle pain or stiffness
not able to have an orgasm
pain, swelling, or redness in the joints
tooth disorder
twitching