As well as its needed effects, gadodiamide (the active ingredient contained in Omniscan) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some gadodiamide side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Cardiovascular side effects have included cardiac failure, arrhythmia and myocardial infarction.
Also reported include vasodilation, flushing, chest pain, deep thrombophlebitis, and rarely, arrhythmia and myocardial infarction resulting in death in patients with ischemic heart disease.
Nervous system side effects have included headache, tinnitus, taste loss, taste perversion, and dizziness.
Convulsions including grand mal, ataxia, abnormal coordination, paresthesia, tremor, aggravated multiple sclerosis (characterized by sensory and motor disturbances), and aggravated migraine have been reported.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, abdominal pain, diarrhea, eructation, dry mouth, vomiting, and melena.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included anaphylactoid reactions (characterized by cardiovascular, respiratory, and cutaneous symptoms).
General side effects have included fever, hot flushes, rigors, fatigue, malaise, pain, and syncope.
Hepatic side effects have included abnormal hepatic function.
Respiratory side effects have included rhinitis and dyspnea.
Ocular side effects have included abnormal vision.
Renal side effects have included acute reversible renal failure.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgia and myalgia.
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus, rash, erythematous rash, increased sweating, and urticaria.
It is possible that some side effects of Omniscan may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Agitation
bloody, black, or tarry stools
blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
change in consciousness
changes in skin color
chest pain or discomfort
clumsiness or unsteadiness
confusion
cough
decreased urine output
depression
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty controlling your bladder or bowels
difficulty swallowing
difficulty walking
dilated neck veins
dizziness
extreme fatigue
fainting
fast, slow, or irregular heartbeat
feeling faint, dizzy, or lightheaded
feeling of warmth or heat
feeling sad or depressed
feeling unusually cold
flushing or redness of the skin, especially on the face and neck
forgetful
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
headache, severe and throbbing
hives
hostility
irregular breathing
irritability
itching
lethargy
loss of bladder control
loss of consciousness
muscle cramps
muscle twitching
nausea
numbness or tingling in your arms, legs, or face
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rapid weight gain
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
seizures
shakiness and unsteady walk
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
shivering
shortness of breath
skin rash
slurred speech or problems swallowing
stupor
sudden sweating
sweating
swelling of the face, fingers, feet, ankles, or lower legs
tenderness
tightness in the chest
total body jerking
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
troubled breathing
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
weight gain
wheezing
Burning or itching of the skin
joint stiffness
limited range of motion in the arms and legs
muscle weakness
pain that is deep in the hip bone or ribs
partial or slight paralysis
red or dark patches on the skin
skin swelling, hardening, or tightening
Abdominal or stomach pain
bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
belching
bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site
bloated or full feeling
change in taste
changes in vision
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
diarrhea
difficulty with moving
dry mouth
excess air or gas in the stomach
hearing loss
hives or welts
increased sweating
joint pain
muscle pains or stiffness
redness of the skin
runny nose
sneezing
stuffy nose
swollen joints