As well as its needed effects, ioversol (the active ingredient contained in Optiray 240) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking ioversol, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some ioversol side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Adverse reactions following the use of this drug are generally independent of the dose and usually mild to moderate, of short duration and resolve spontaneously (without treatment).
The most frequently reported adverse reactions were mild discomfort, heat or cold sensation, pain during the injection, transient test perversion, nausea, vomiting, skin reactions such as and urticaria or erythema.
Very common (10% or more): Feeling hotCommon (1% to 10%): PainUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Vertigo, extravasation, shaking, chills, fever, feeling coldVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Tinnitus, edema, malaise, tiredness, sluggishness, feeling abnormalFrequency not reported: Hyperthermia, pyrexia
Common (1% to 10%): NauseaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Vomiting, dry mouthVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Sialoadenitis, abdominal pain, tongue edema, dysphagia, hypersalivationFrequency not reported: Diarrhea
Common (1% to 10%): HeadacheUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Cerebral infarct, lightheadedness, vasovagal reaction, disorientation, paresthesia, dysphasia, visual hallucinations, syncope, bad tasteRare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): Dizziness, dysgeusia, tremor, convulsions, aphasia, paralysis, coma and deathVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Loss of consciousness, speech disorder, somnolence, hypoesthesia, stuporFrequency not reported: Dyskinesia, amnesia
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Angina pectoris, hypotension, blood pressure fluctuation, arterial spasm, bradycardia, conduction defect, false aneurysm, hypertension, transient, arrhythmia, vascular trauma, hematomaRare (less than 0.
1%): Arterial thrombosis, displacement of arterial plaques, venous thrombosis, dissection of the coronary vessels, transient sinus arrest, thrombophlebitis, flushingVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Heart block, abnormal ECG, atrial fibrillation, cerebrovascular disorderFrequency not reported: Tachycardia; T-wave amplitude; ST depression, ST elevation; changes in cardiac output, left ventricular systolic and end-diastolic pressure, right ventricular systolic and pulmonary artery systolic pressure; decreases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure; myocardial infarction; angioneurotic edema, peripheral edema, vasodilation, thrombosis, disseminated intravascular coagulation, shock, cyanosis, extrasystole, palpitations, vasospasm
Regardless of the contrast medium employed, the overall incidence of serious adverse reaction is higher with coronary arteriography than with other procedures.
Cardiac decompensation, serious arrhythmias, myocardial ischemia, or myocardial infarction may occur during coronary arteriography and left ventriculography.
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Urticaria, pruritus, facial edema, erythemaRare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): RashVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Angioedema, hyperhidrosis (including cold sweat)Frequency not reported: Maculopapular rash, ecchymosis, tissue necrosis, toxic epidermal necrolysis, acute generalized erythematous pustulosis, erythema multiforme, pallor
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Polyuria, urinary retentionVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Incontinence, hematuriaFrequency not reported: Temporary anuria, dysuria
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Blurred vision, periorbital edemaVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Allergic conjunctivitis (including eye irritation, ocular hyperemia, watery eyes, swelling of conjunctiva, etc.
)Frequency not reported: Transient blindness
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Laryngeal edema, pulmonary edema, sneezing, congestion, coughing, shortness of breath, hypoxiaRare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): Laryngeal spasm and obstruction (including throat tightness, stridor, etc.
), dyspnea, rhinitis, throat irritationVery rare (less than 0.
01%): PharyngitisFrequency not reported: Brachial plexus palsy following auxiliary artery injections, chest pain, choking, wheezing (may be an initial manifestation of more severe and infrequent reactions including asthmatic attack), bronchospasm, apnea, respiratory arrest, asthma, dysphonia
Rare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): Anaphylaxis with loss of consciousness, coma, severe cardiovascular disturbances and deathVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Anaphylactoid reactions
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Muscle spasm
Very rare (less than 0.
01%): injection site reactions (including pain, erythema, and hemorrhage up to necrosis especially after extravasation)Frequency not reported: Hemorrhage or pseudoaneurysms at the puncture site
Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Agitation, anxiety, confusion
Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Acute renal failure, abnormal renal function, decreased creatinine clearance, increased BUNFrequency not reported: Temporary nephropathy, renal colic
Frequency not reported: Thyroid function tests indicative of hypothyroidism or transient thyroid suppression in adult and pediatric patients (including infants)
Frequency not reported: Transient changes in hepatorenal chemistry tests
It is possible that some side effects of Optiray 240 may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Arm, back, or jaw pain
blood in the stools or urine
blue lips and fingernails
blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
bruising
changes in skin color
chest pain or discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
confusion
coughing
coughing or vomiting blood
coughing that sometimes produces a pink frothy sputum
decrease in the frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
difficult, fast, noisy breathing, sometimes with wheezing
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness or lightheadedness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fainting
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
headache
hives or welts, itching, or skin rash
hoarseness
increased sweating
nausea
nervousness
painful urination
pains in the chest, groin, or legs, especially calves of the legs
pain, tenderness, or swelling of the foot or leg
pale skin
persistent bleeding or oozing from puncture sites, mouth, or nose
pounding in the ears
rapid weight gain
redness of the skin
seizures
sensation of spinning
severe headaches of sudden onset
severe numbness, especially on one side of the face or body
severe, unusual tiredness or weakness
slow, fast, or irregular heartbeat
slow or irregular breathing
stupor
sudden loss of coordination
sudden onset of shortness of breath for no apparent reason
sudden onset of slurred speech
sudden vision changes
sweating
swelling around the eyes
swelling in the legs and ankles
unusual tiredness or weakness
Agitation
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
chills
coma
confusion
depression
diarrhea
extremely high fever or body temperature
fast, shallow breathing
fast, weak heartbeat
fever
hostility
irritability
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
lethargy
muscle cramps
muscle twitching
no sensation in the legs
not able to pass urine
pale, clammy skin
red, irritated eyes
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
tenderness, pain, swelling, warmth, skin discoloration, and prominent superficial veins over the affected area
thirst
unable to move the legs
Bad taste
collection of blood under the skin
deep, dark purple bruise
dry mouth
pain, redness, or pale skin at the injection site
vomiting