Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, lidocaine / prilocaine topical may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking lidocaine / prilocaine topical, check with your doctor immediately:
Some lidocaine / prilocaine topical side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Local side effects have included erythema, edema, and abnormal sensation.
Local effects observed in the trials of the cream on intact skin have included paleness (37%), erythema (30%), alterations in temperature sensations (7%), edema (6%), itching (2%), and rash (<1%).
The most commonly reported local side effects in clinical studies on genital mucous membranes were redness (21%), burning sensation (17%), and edema (10%).
Cardiovascular side effects have included bradycardia, hypotension, and cardiovascular collapse leading to arrest.
Nervous system side effects have included CNS excitation and/or depression.
Excitatory CNS reactions may be brief or not occur at all.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included angioedema, bronchospasm, and shock.
Dermatologic side effects have included urticaria.
The detection of sensitivity by skin testing is of doubtful value.
It is possible that some side effects of Oraqix may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
gingival gel/jelly
Cough
difficulty with swallowing
large, hive-like swellings on the eyelids, face, lips, or tongue
severe dizziness or feeling faint
shortness of breath
skin rash, itching, or hives
stuffy nose
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing
wheezing
Blisters on skin at application site
blue or blue-purple color of lips, fingernails, mouth, or skin
blurred or double vision
convulsions
dark urine
dizziness or drowsiness
fainting
feeling hot, cold, or numb
headache
irregular or fast heartbeat
muscle twitching or trembling
nausea or vomiting
ringing or buzzing in the ears
shortness of breath or troubled breathing
unusual excitement, nervousness, or restlessness
unusual tiredness or weakness
Burning, swelling, itching, or skin rash at application site
white or red skin at the application site