As well as its needed effects, miconazole (the active ingredient contained in Oravig) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking miconazole, check with your doctor immediately:
Some miconazole side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The overall safety of miconazole (the active ingredient contained in Oravig) buccal tablets was assessed in  adult subjects, including  HIV-infected subjects,  subjects with head and neck cancer, and  healthy subjects.
Discontinuation due to side effects occurred in  of subjects overall.
Although intravenous miconazole has been discontinued in the U.
S.
, side effects associated with this formulation have been included.
Local side effects have included oral discomfort, oral burning, oral pain, gingival pain, gingival swelling, gingival pruritus, tongue ulceration, mouth ulceration, glossodynia, dry mouth, application site pain or discomfort, toothache, loss of taste, and altered taste in  of HIV-infected patients.
Oral discomfort, oral pain, dry mouth, glossodynia, loss of taste, altered taste, tongue ulceration, mouth ulceration, tooth disorder, and application site discomfort or pain have been reported in  of patients with head and neck cancer.
Phlebitis has been reported in at least one-third of patients treated with intravenous miconazole (the active ingredient contained in Oravig) 
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea (up to ), nausea (up to ), vomiting (up to ), dry mouth , oral discomfort , upper abdominal pain (up to ), and gastroenteritis .
Nausea, vomiting, anorexia, and diarrhea have been reported with intravenous miconazole (the active ingredient contained in Oravig) 
Nervous system side effects have included headache (up to ), dysgeusia (up to ), and ageusia .
Dizziness has been reported with intravenous miconazole (the active ingredient contained in Oravig) 
Respiratory side effects have included cough , upper respiratory infection , and pharyngeal pain .
Hematologic side effects have included anemia , lymphopenia , and neutropenia .
Transient decreases in hematocrit, thrombocytosis, thrombocytopenia, and erythrocyte aggregation have been reported with intravenous miconazole (the active ingredient contained in Oravig) 
Other side effects have included fatigue  and pain .
Fever and chills have been reported with intravenous miconazole (the active ingredient contained in Oravig) 
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus .
Pruritus (which may have been accompanied by maculopapular rash) has been reported with intravenous miconazole (the active ingredient contained in Oravig)  and in some cases, severe pruritus developed after weeks of therapy or after therapy was completed.
Hepatic side effects have included elevated gamma glutamyltransferase .
Hypersensitivity side effects have included allergic reaction (including anaphylactic reactions and hypersensitivity).
Contact dermatitis has been reported when intravenous miconazole (the active ingredient contained in Oravig) was used topically.
Anaphylaxis has been reported rarely with intravenous miconazole.
Increases in cholesterol and triglycerides reported in patients receiving intravenous miconazole (the active ingredient contained in Oravig) were due to its vehicle, and were reversible upon discontinuation of the drug.
Hyperlipidemia due to Cremophor EL had the atypical appearance of gamma- globulin.
Hyponatremia associated with intravenous miconazole therapy resulted in a mean decrease in sodium of  mEq/L, but usually was not a reason to discontinue therapy.
Miconazole was usually administered in normal saline solution to help minimize decreases in sodium.
Metabolic side effects associated with intravenous miconazole have included hyperlipidemia, which was associated with the vehicle of miconazole (Cremophor EL [polyethoxylated castor oil]), and hyponatremia.
Cardiovascular side effects associated with intravenous miconazole (the active ingredient contained in Oravig) have included cardiac arrhythmias, tachycardia, and cardiac arrest.
These effects may have been associated with rapid infusion of miconazole and due to the Cremophor EL vehicle.
Ocular side effects associated with intravenous miconazole (the active ingredient contained in Oravig) have included blurred vision.
Psychiatric side effects associated with intravenous miconazole (the active ingredient contained in Oravig) have included euphoria.
Renal side effects have included acute renal failure, possibly due to intravenous miconazole (the active ingredient contained in Oravig) administration, in one patient with a renal allograft.
It is possible that some side effects of Oravig may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Body aches or pain
cough
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
fever or chills
headache
loss of voice
lower back or side pain
nasal congestion
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Black, tarry stools
pale skin
shortness of breath
ulcers, sores, or white spots in the mouth
Change in taste
diarrhea
dry mouth
headache
itching skin
loss of taste
nausea
pain, redness, and swelling of the gums
sores on the tongue
toothache
Abdominal or stomach pain
loss of appetite
pain
upper abdominal or stomach pain
weakness