As well as its needed effects, oritavancin (the active ingredient contained in Orbactiv) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some oritavancin side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
In pooled clinical trials, serious side effects were reported in  of patients treated with this drug (compared to  treated with vancomycin).
Cellulitis was the serious side effect reported most often with both drugs.
The most common side effects reported in patients treated with this drug were headache, nausea, vomiting, limb and subcutaneous abscesses, and diarrhea.
This drug was discontinued due to side effects in  of patients; most often due to cellulitis and osteomyelitis.
Common ( to ): Nausea, vomiting, diarrheaFrequency not reported: Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea
Common ( to ): Headache, dizziness
Common ( to ): Infusion site phlebitis, infusion site reaction, abscess (limb and subcutaneous)Frequency not reported: Infusion related reactions (including pruritus, urticaria, flushing), osteomyelitis, infusion site erythema, extravasation, induration, peripheral edema
Common ( to ): Increased ALT, increased ASTFrequency not reported: Increased total bilirubin
Common ( to ): Tachycardia
Frequency not reported: Cellulitis, pruritus, rash, urticaria, angioedema, erythema multiforme, pruritus, leukocytoclastic vasculitis
Frequency not reported: Hypersensitivity reactions
Frequency not reported: Anemia, eosinophilia
Frequency not reported: Hyperuricemia, hypoglycemia
Frequency not reported: Tenosynovitis, myalgia
Frequency not reported: Bronchospasm, wheezing
It is possible that some side effects of Orbactiv may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Changes in skin color
dry, red, hot, or irritated skin
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
pain, swelling, or tenderness in the skin
Black, tarry stools
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
fever
hives, itching skin, or rash
increase in bone pain
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
redness, soreness, or itching skin
sores, welting, or blisters
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, hands, or feet
swollen glands
tightness in the chest
unusual bleeding or bruising
Abdominal or stomach tenderness
severe abdominal or stomach cramps and pain
watery and severe diarrhea, which may also be bloody
Dizziness
headache
nausea or vomiting