Common side effects of Oseni include: upper respiratory tract infection.
Other side effects include: bone fracture, headache, nasopharyngitis, and pharyngitis.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, alogliptin / pioglitazone may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking alogliptin / pioglitazone, check with your doctor immediately:
Some alogliptin / pioglitazone side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most common side effect reported include nasopharyngitis, back pain and upper respiratory tract infection.
Alogliptin:In the EXAMINE trial which enrolled patients with type  diabetes and recent acute coronary syndrome, more patients (; n=) on alogliptin therapy were hospitalized for congestive heart failure (CHF) compare with placebo (; n=).
Pioglitazone:In the PROactive trial, a study in  patients with type  diabetes and a history of macrovascular disease who were force-uptitrated to pioglitazone  mg once a day or given placebo in addition to standard of care, edema occurred in  of patients treated with pioglitazone (n=) compared with  of placebo (n=) patients.
Treatment-emergent adverse events leading to at least  hospitalized congestive heart failure event occurred in  of patients receiving pioglitazone and  of patients receiving placebo.
The primary objective of the -year PROactive trial was to examine the effect of pioglitazone on mortality and macrovascular morbidity in high-risk patients.
No statistically significant difference between pioglitazone and placebo/standard care were observed for time to the first occurrence of their first event (all-cause mortality, nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI) including silent MI, stroke, acute coronary syndrome, cardiac intervention including coronary artery bypass grafting or percutaneous intervention, major leg amputation above the ankle, and bypass surgery or revascularization in the leg).
A total of  patients receiving pioglitazone experienced at least  event compared with  patients receiving placebo/standard care.
Pioglitazone is associated with edema (peripheral, generalized, and pitting edema and fluid retention) when used alone or when used in combination therapy.
In pioglitazone monotherapy trials, edema occurred in  (n=),  (n=), and  (n=) of patients receiving  mg,  mg, and  mg of pioglitazone daily for  to  weeks.
Pioglitazone in combination with a sulfonylurea for  to  weeks resulted in edema in  (n=),  (n=), and  (n=) of patients receiving  mg,  mg, and  mg of pioglitazone daily, respectively.
In a study in patients with NYHA class II or III heart failure the percentage of patients experiencing CHF progression during the study was  and  in patients receiving pioglitazone (n=) and glyburide (n=), respectively.
Postmarketing reports of congestive heart failure have been received in patients treated with pioglitazone.
Reports have been received from patients both with and without a history of a known history of heart disease and both with and without concomitant insulin use.
Alogliptin:Common ( to ): Hypertension, Congestive heart failure (CHF) hospitalizationPioglitazone:Common ( to ): CHF hospitalization Postmarketing reports: CHF with and without known heart disease and with and without concomitant insulin
Alogliptin-Pioglitazone:Common ( to ): Hypoglycemia (up to )Alogliptin:Common ( to ): Hypoglycemia (up to )Pioglitazone:Common ( to ): Hypoglycemia (up to )
Alogliptin:Uncommon ( to ): Pancreatitis Postmarketing reports: Acute pancreatitis
Acute pancreatitis was reported in  (n=) of patients treated with alogliptin  mg and less than  (n=) of patients treated with active comparator or placebo in alogliptin clinical trials.
IN the EXAMINE trial, a cardiovascular (CV) outcomes trial in patients with type  diabetes and high CV risk, acute pancreatitis was reported in  (n=) of patients treated with alogliptin and  (n=) of patients receiving placebo.
Pioglitazone:Uncommon ( to ): Elevated ALT Frequency not reported: Decreased hemoglobin and hematocrit
Alogliptin: ALT elevations greater than  times upper limit of normal ( x ULN) occurred in  of alogliptin treated patients compared with  of those receiving comparator or placebo during clinical trials.
In the EXAMINE trial, a trial in patients with type  diabetes and high cardiovascular risk, ALT increases to  x ULN occurred in  of patients receiving alogliptin (compared with  of placebo patients).
Pioglitazone: Hepatotoxic effects were not observed in pioglitazone clinical trials, however, postmarketing cases of fatal and nonfatal hepatic failure have been reported.
Alogliptin:Postmarketing reports: Hepatic enzyme elevations, fulminant hepatic failurePioglitazone:Uncommon ( to ): Elevated serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) Postmarketing reports: Fatal and non-fatal hepatic fail
Alogliptin:Uncommon ( to ): Hypersensitivity reactions Postmarketing reports: Anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, urticaria, severe cutaneous adverse reactions (Stevens-Johnson syndrome)
Pioglitazone:Frequency not reported: Weight gain, edemaPostmarketing reports: Rapid increased in weight
Alogliptin-Pioglitazone:Common ( to ): Back pain Alogliptin:Common ( to ): Back pain Frequency not reported: ArthralgiaPioglitazone:Common ( to ): Myalgia , back pain Uncommon ( to ): Elevation in serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK) 
Alogliptin: Between October  and December , thirty-three cases of severe arthralgia have been reported to the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System Database.
Each case involved the use of  or more dipeptidyl peptidase- (DPP-) inhibitor.
In all cases, substantial reduction in prior activity level was reported,  patients were hospitalized due to disabling joint pain.
In  cases, symptoms appeared within  month of starting therapy, in  cases symptoms resolved less than  month after discontinuation.
A positive rechallenge was reported in  cases, with  cases involving use of a different DPP- inhibitor.
Sitagliptin had the greatest number of cases reported (n=) followed by saxagliptin (n=), linagliptin (n=), alogliptin (n=), and vildagliptin (n=).
Alogliptin:Common ( to ): Headache Pioglitazone:Common ( to ): Headache 
Pioglitazone:Postmarketing reports: Macular edema
Pioglitazone:Uncommon ( to ): Bladder cancer (up to )
The US FDA has released results of its review of pioglitazone and bladder cancer and concluded that the data suggests use of this drug may be linked to an increase risk of bladder cancer.
A -year prospective cohort study in diabetic patients performed by the manufacturer (n=, never users; n=, ever users) identified  newly diagnosed cases of bladder cancer in never users and  cases in ever users.
The fully adjusted hazard ratio (HR) showed pioglitazone use was not associated with an increased risk (HR  ( confidence interval  to ).
And while a modest trend towards higher risk with increasing duration was observed, this trend was not statistically significant.
Compared to the interim -year results, the -year results found weaker associations that were not statistically significant.
However, there are studies that have shown a statistically significant association between exposure to this drug and bladder cancer and an association between cumulative dose or cumulative duration of exposure and bladder cancer.
Overall, this drug may be associated with an increase in the risk of urinary bladder tumors, however there is insufficient data to determine whether this drug is a tumor promoter for urinary bladder tumors.
Alogliptin-Pioglitazone:Very common ( or more): Nasopharyngitis , upper respiratory tract infection Alogliptin:Common ( to ): Influenza , nasopharyngitis , upper respiratory tract infection Pioglitazone:Common ( to ): Upper respiratory tract infection (up to ), sinusitis , nasopharyngitis 
Postmarketing reports of bullous pemphigoid requiring hospitalization have been reported with dipeptidyl peptidase- (DPP-) inhibitors use.
These case typically recovered with topical or systemic immunosuppressive treatment and discontinuation of DPP- inhibitor.
Dipeptidyl peptidase- inhibitors:Postmarketing reports: Bullous pemphigoid
It is possible that some side effects of Oseni may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Anxiety
blurred vision
chest pain
chills
cold sweats
confusion
cool, pale skin
decreased urine output
depression
dilated neck veins
dizziness
extreme fatigue
fast heartbeat
headache
increased hunger
irregular breathing
irregular heartbeat
nausea
nightmares
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or lower legs
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing
unusual tiredness or weakness
weight gain
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating
blood in the urine
constipation
cough
darkened urine
diarrhea
difficulty with swallowing
feeling of discomfort
fever
frequent, strong, or increased urge to urinate
hives, itching, or rash
indigestion
inflammation of the joints
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
muscle aches
pain in the back, lower abdomen, or stomach
painful urination
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
swollen lymph glands
vomiting
yellow eyes or skin
Change in vision
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
light-colored stools
severe joint pain
stomach pain, continuing
Back pain
body aches or pain
ear congestion
loss of voice
sneezing
stuffy or runny nose