Commonly reported side effects of oxaliplatin include: peripheral neuropathy and severe peripheral neuropathy.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, oxaliplatin may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking oxaliplatin, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking oxaliplatin, get emergency help immediately:
Some oxaliplatin side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
In general, side effects have been reported in  of patients, with  of those characterized as NCI CTC Grade / severity.
The incidence of side effects given in the following sections refers to oxaliplatin/fluorouracil/leucovorin combination therapy.
The most common side effects include peripheral sensory neuropathies, neutropenia, nausea, emesis, and diarrhea.
Thirteen percent of patients in the combination therapy group and  in the fluorouracil/leucovorin group discontinued treatment due to neuropathies, or gastrointestinal or hematologic side effects.
The incidence of death was  in the combination therapy group,  in the oxaliplatin monotherapy group, and  in the fluorouracil/leucovorin group within  days of treatment (regardless of causality).
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea ( overall,  NCI CTC Grade /), nausea ( overall,  Grade /), vomiting ( overall,  Grade /), stomatitis ( overall,  Grade /), abdominal pain ( overall,  Grade /), anorexia ( overall,  Grade /), and gastroesophageal reflux ( overall,  Grade /).
Side effects with less than  incidence of Grade / severity have included constipation , dyspepsia , taste perversion , mucositis , and flatulence .
Additional side effects possibly related to treatment have been reported in  to  of patients and include dry mouth, melena, gingivitis, rectal hemorrhage, hemorrhoids, hemoptysis, proctitis, tenesmus, intestinal obstruction, and enlarged abdomen.
Postmarketing gastrointestinal side effects have included ileus, pancreatitis, colitis (including Clostridium difficile diarrhea), severe diarrhea/vomiting resulting in hypokalemia, and intestinal obstruction.
Acute neuropathy is reversible and primarily of a peripheral sensory nature.
The onset occurs within hours to  days of dosing.
It generally resolves within  weeks and frequently recurs with repeat doses.
Exposure to cold temperature or cold objects may precipitate or exacerbate symptoms.
Symptoms may include transient paresthesia, dysesthesia, and hypoesthesia in the hands, feet, perioral area, or throat.
Jaw spasm, abnormal tongue sensation, dysarthria, eye pain, and chest pressure have also been reported.
Ice should be avoided for mucositis prophylaxis.
Acute pharyngolaryngeal dysesthesia with sensations of dysphagia and dyspnea but no laryngospasm or bronchospasm has been reported in  to  of patients.
Persistent neuropathy generally lasts for more than  weeks and is also primarily of a peripheral sensory nature.
Symptoms included paresthesias, dysesthesias, hypoesthesias, and deficits in proprioception that may interfere with daily activities (, writing, buttoning, swallowing, or walking).
Persistent neuropathy may occur with no prior neuropathy event.
Eighty percent of patients who developed Grade  persistent neuropathy progressed from Grade  or   The symptoms may improve in some patients when oxaliplatin is discontinued.
Preventive measures include calcium and magnesium solutions, gabapentin, carbamazepine, amifostine, and glutathione.
Treatment measures include calcium and magnesium solutions, gabapentin, and alpha-lipoic acid.
Nervous system side effects which have been most frequently reported include two types of neuropathy  - acute and persistent, with an incidence of  and , respectively.
Six percent of patients experienced NCI CTC Grade / persistent neuropathy.
Side effects with less than  incidence of Grade / severity have included headache, dizziness, and insomnia.
Additional side effects possibly related to treatment have been reported in  to  of patients and include anxiety, depression, ataxia, nervousness, and somnolence.
Postmarketing nervous system side effects include deafness, loss of deep tendon reflexes, dysarthria, Lhermitte sign, cranial nerve palsies, fasciculations, convulsions, and Reversible Posterior Leukoencephalopathy Syndrome (RPLS, also known as PRES).
Hematologic side effects have included thrombocytopenia ( all grades;  NCI CTC Grade /), neutropenia ( all grades;  Grade /), leukopenia ( all grades;  Grade /), anemia ( all grades,  Grade /), thromboembolism ( overall,  Grade /), and febrile neutropenia ( overall,  Grade /).
Postmarketing hematologic side effects have included reports of immunoallergic thrombocytopenia, immunoallergic hemolytic anemia, hemolytic uremic syndrome, and prolongation of prothrombin time and of INR in patients receiving anticoagulants.
One case of fatal hemolytic anemia has been reported.
Side effects affecting the body as a whole have included fatigue ( overall,  NCI CTC Grade /), fever ( overall,  Grade /), back pain ( overall,  Grade /), edema ( overall,  Grade /), pain ( overall,  Grade /), chest pain ( overall,  Grade /), flushing , peripheral edema , rigors , hot flashes ( to ), and angioedema.
Respiratory side effects have included dyspnea ( overall,  NCI CTC Grade /) and coughing ( overall,  Grade /).
Side effects with a less than  incidence of Grade / severity have included rhinitis , upper respiratory tract infection , pharyngitis , epistaxis , and hiccup .
Pulmonary fibrosis and other interstitial lung diseases (sometimes fatal) have also been reported .
A case of cryptogenic organizing pneumonitis has been reported.
Patients who develop mild to moderate hypersensitivity to oxaliplatin may be pretreated with steroids as well as type  and type  histamine receptor antagonists.
However, patients who develop severe reactions are unlikely to tolerate further therapy.
Hypersensitivity reactions of an anaphylactoid and anaphylactic nature with symptoms of rash, urticaria, erythema, pruritus, and rarely, bronchospasm, and hypotension have been reported.
Anaphylactic shock has also been reported.
Less than  of hypersensitivity reactions were characterized as NCI CTC Grade /  Other platinum compounds have been associated with fatal hypersensitivity reactions.
Epinephrine, corticosteroids, and antihistamines have been used to manage symptoms.
Postmarketing hypersensitivity reactions have included laryngospasm.
Hepatic side effects have included elevations in ALT ( overall,  NCI CTC Grade /), AST ( overall,  Grade /), and total bilirubin ( overall,  Grade /).
Postmarketing hepatic side effects have included veno-occlusive disease of the liver (also known as sinusoidal obstruction syndrome) and perisinusoidal fibrosis (which rarely may progress).
Dermatologic side effects with a less than  incidence of NCI CTC Grade / severity have included hand-foot syndrome , rash , and alopecia .
Erythematous rash and purpura have been reported in  to  of patients.
Local side effects (injection site reactions) have been reported in  of patients (, NCI CTC Grade /), including redness, swelling, and pain.
Extravasation may result in severe pain and inflammation and cause complications such as necrosis.
Renal side effects have included serum creatinine elevations ( overall,  NCI CTC Grade /).
Postmarketing renal side effects have included acute tubular necrosis, acute interstitial nephritis, and acute renal failure.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgia ( overall, less than  Grade /).
Involuntary muscle contractions and muscle weakness have been reported in  to  of patients.
Six cases of involuntary masticatory spasms induced by continuous infusion of oxaliplatin have also been reported.
Metabolic side effects have included hypokalemia ( overall,  NCI CTC Grade /) and dehydration ( overall,  Grade /).
Weight decrease ( to ) and metabolic acidosis have also been reported.
Ocular side effects have included abnormal lacrimation ( overall, less than  NCI CTC Grade /), conjunctivitis ( to ), decrease of visual acuity, visual field disturbance, transient vision loss (reversible following therapy discontinuation), and optic neuritis.
A case of acute bilateral abducens paralysis due to oxaliplatin has also been reported.
Genitourinary side effects that have been reported with a less than  incidence of NCI CTC Grade / severity include hematuria  and dysuria .
Additional side effects possibly related to treatment have been reported in  to  of patients and include abnormal micturition frequency, vaginal hemorrhage, and urinary incontinence.
Cardiovascular side effects have included tachycardia ( to ).
It is possible that some side effects of oxaliplatin may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abnormal tongue sensation
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blistering, peeling, redness, or swelling of the palms of the hands or bottoms of the feet
blood in the urine or stools
burning, prickling, itching, or tingling of the skin
chest pain
chills
cough
decreased feeling, or pain in the hands, feet, around the mouth, or throat
decreased urination
difficulty performing daily activities such as writing, buttoning, swallowing, or walking
difficulty with articulating words
difficulty with breathing
difficulty with moving
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
dry mouth
eye pain
fainting
fever
increase in heart rate
jaw spasm
lightheadedness
muscle pain or stiffness
numbness
numbness, pain, tingling, or unusual sensations in the palms of the hands or bottoms of the feet
pain in the chest, groin, or legs, especially the calves
pain in the joints
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
rapid breathing
sensation of pins and needles
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stabbing pain
sunken eyes
swelling
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
swollen glands
thirst
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual tiredness or weakness
vision changes
wrinkled skin
Fast heartbeat
hives, itching, or skin rash
increased thirst
irregular heartbeat
loss of appetite
mood changes
nausea or vomiting
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
tightness in the chest
Back, leg, or stomach pains
blindness
bloated abdomen
blue-yellow color blindness
blurred vision
changes in patterns and rhythms of speech
dark urine
deafness
decreased vision
deep breathing
drowsiness
electric shock-like sensation that moves down the back and into the legs following a bending movement of the neck
general body swelling
increased urination
irregular heartbeat, recurrent
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of deep tendon reflexes
muscle cramps or spasms
muscle tremors
pain and fullness in the right upper abdomen
restlessness
severe constipation
severe diarrhea
severe nosebleeds
severe stomach cramps or tenderness
severe vomiting
trouble with speaking
twitches of the muscle visible under the skin
weakness of the muscles in your face
weight gain
yellow eyes or skin
Agitation
coma
cough or hoarseness
diarrhea
disorientation
involuntary, rapid, or rhythmic movement of the eyes
lack of coordination
lack of sensation
lethargy
lower back or side pain
paralysis
respiratory failure
seizures
severe weakness
slow or irregular heartbeat
tremors
vomiting, profuse
Acid or sour stomach
belching
body aches or pain
ear congestion
feeling unusually cold, shivering
headache
heartburn
indigestion
loss of voice
nasal congestion
runny nose
sneezing
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
trouble sleeping
weight loss
Bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
bloated or full feeling
bloody nose
burning while urinating
change in taste
congestion
cracked lips
dryness or soreness of the throat
excess air or gas in stomach or intestines
feeling of warmth
hair loss
passing gas
rapid weight gain
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally upper chest
tender, swollen glands in the neck
thinning of the hair
unusual tearing of the eyes
voice changes