Commonly reported side effects of palbociclib include: decreased neutrophils.
Other side effects include: infection and pulmonary embolism.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, palbociclib may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some palbociclib side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Very common ( or more): Decreased white blood cells (up to ), decreased neutrophils (up to ), decreased hemoglobin (up to ), decreased lymphocytes (up to ), neutropenia (up to ), decreased platelets (up to ), leukopenia (up to ), anemia (up to ), thrombocytopenia (up to )Frequency not reported: Febrile neutropenia
Very common ( or more): Upper respiratory infection (up to ), epistaxis (up to )Common ( to ): Pulmonary embolism
Very common ( or more): Infections (up to ), fatigue (up to ), asthenia (up to )
Most common adverse reactions ( or greater incidence): neutropenia, leukopenia, fatigue, anemia, infections, nausea, stomatitis, alopecia, diarrhea, thrombocytopenia, decreased appetite, vomiting, asthenia, peripheral neuropathy, and epistaxis.
Very common ( or more): Stomatitis (up to ), nausea (up to ), diarrhea (up to ), vomiting (up to )
Very common ( or more): Alopecia (up to )
Very common ( or more): Decreased appetite (up to )
Very common ( or more): Peripheral neuropathy (up to )
It is possible that some side effects of palbociclib may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Black, tarry stools
body aches or pain
chills
cough
ear congestion
fever
headache
loss of voice
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
sneezing
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
trouble breathing
ulcers, sores, or white spots in the mouth
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Anxiety
bloody nose
chest pain
dizziness or lightheadedness
fainting
fast heartbeat
hoarseness
sudden shortness of breath or troubled breathing
Diarrhea
hair loss or thinning of the hair
lack or loss of strength
nausea
vomiting
Burning, numbness, tingling, or painful sensation
decreased appetite
unsteadiness or awkwardness
weakness in the arms, legs, or feet