Commonly reported side effects of palifermin include: arthralgia, dysesthesia, edema, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, increased serum amylase, paresthesia, pruritus, skin rash, tongue edema, dysgeusia, erythema, mouth discoloration, and tongue discoloration.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, palifermin may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some palifermin side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Dermatologic side effects for palifermin in relation to placebo therapy have included rash ( vs.
), pruritus ( vs.
), and erythema ( vs.
).
Skin rash was the most common serious side effect reported.
Clinical studies (n=) reported the occurrence of grade  skin rash in  patients ( palifermin,  placebo) resulting in the discontinuation of treatment in  patients ( palifermin,  placebo).
Following the first  consecutive days of administration, the median time to cutaneous side effects is  days with a median duration of  days.
Following the first  consecutive days of administration, the median time to cutaneous side effects, including edema, is  days with a median duration of  days.
Other side effects for palifermin in relation to placebo therapy have included edema ( vs.
), pain ( vs.
), fever ( vs.
) and perianal pain ( vs.
).
Other side effects of palifermin following a single  mcg/kg IV dose include fatigue  and headache .
Gastrointestinal side effects for palifermin in relation to placebo therapy have included mouth/tongue thickness and/or discoloration ( vs.
) and altered taste ( vs.
).
Oral/perioral dysesthesia and white film coating of the mouth or tongue has also been reported.
Musculoskeletal side effects for palifermin in relation to placebo therapy have included arthralgia ( vs ).
Dysthesias in palifermin treated patients have generally been reported as localized to the perioral region.
In contrast, patients receiving placebo have generally reported dysthesias in extremities.
Nervous system side effects for palifermin in relation to placebo therapy have included dysthesias ( vs.
).
Types of dysthesias reported have included hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, and paresthesia.
There are no available data on the effects of palifermin on stimulation of KGF receptor- expressing, non- hematopoietic tumors in patients.
At concentrations greater than  times the average therapeutic human concentration palifermin has been reported to enhance the growth of human epithelial tumor cell lines in vitro.
In nude mouse xenograft models, doses  and  times higher than the recommended human dose administered daily for  consecutive weeks and repeated weekly for  to  weeks may have resulted in a dose-dependent increase in the growth rate of  of  KGF receptor- expressing human tumor cell lines.
Oncologic side effects have included enhancement in the growth of human epithelial tumor cell lines in vitro and an increase in the rate of tumor cell line growth in a human carcinoma xenograft model.
In clinical studies, the elevated serum lipase and amylase levels were reversible with peak increases recorded during the period of cytotoxic therapy.
Levels returned to baseline by the day of PBPC infusion.
There are no reports of required treatment intervention.
The increased amount of amylase is reported to be predominantly salivary in origin.
Metabolic side effects for palifermin in relation to placebo therapy have included elevated serum lipase grade  ( vs.
), elevated serum lipase grade  ( vs.
), elevated serum amylase grade  ( vs.
), and elevated serum amylase grade  ( vs.
).
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypertension.
Hypertension was reported with doses of  mcg/kg and  mcg/kg in patients undergoing hematopoietic transplantation.
This effect appeared to be transient.
There are no reports of treatment discontinuation due to hypertension.
There have been reports of + or greater proteinuria in patients treated with palifermin; however, a causal relationship between palifermin and proteinuria has not been established.
Genitourinary side effects have included proteinuria.
In general, doses of  mcg/kg administered intravenously  doses prior to and  doses after myeloablative chemotherapy/TBI produced the same type of side effects seen with  mcg/kg doses; however, a higher level of severity was reported with the higher dose.
Respiratory side effects for palifermin in relation to placebo therapy have included cough ( vs.
) and rhinitis ( vs.
).
It is possible that some side effects of palifermin may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Fever
Skin rash (severe)
Bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
change in taste
difficulty with moving
discoloration of the tongue
dizziness
flushing or redness of the skin
headache
increased sensitivity to pain
increased sensitivity to touch
itching skin
muscle pain or stiffness
nervousness
pain
pain in the joints
pounding in the ears
rash (mild)
slow or fast heartbeat
swelling
thickening of the tongue
tingling in the hands and feet
unusually warm skin
redness or swelling of the vagina
redness, swelling, or pain of the skin
scaling of the skin on the hands and feet
ulceration of the skin