Commonly reported side effects of pamidronate include: urinary tract infection, cough, dyspepsia, dyspnea, myalgia, abdominal pain, anemia, anxiety, constipation, diarrhea, fatigue, fever, hypervolemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, hypophosphatemia, infusion site reaction, insomnia, nausea, ostealgia, pain, thrombocytopenia, vomiting, and anorexia.
Other side effects include: atrial fibrillation, candidiasis, psychosis, syncope, uremia, drowsiness, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, hypertension, hypothyroidism, leukopenia, rales, rhinitis, and tachycardia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, pamidronate may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking pamidronate, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some pamidronate side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
This drug has been generally well tolerated and many adverse effects that occurred during treatment may have been related to the underlying disease state.
Adverse effects have been most often associated with larger (90 mg) doses of pamidronate.
The most common adverse effect has been fever, occurring in up to 41% of patients.
The fever was generally mild and transient.
Onset was typically within the first 48 hours after infusion and resolution was within another 48 hours.
Very common (10% or more): Nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhea, constipation, gastritis, dyspepsia
Very common (10% or more): Urinary tract infection (15%)Common (1% to 10%): Moniliasis
Presentation of hypocalcemia may be delayed.
In one case report, the patient presented with fingertip paresthesias and a serum calcium of 6.
8 mEq/L (7.
8 mEq/mL, corrected) 13 days after a single infusion of pamidronate.
Very common (10% or more): Hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia, anorexia, fluid overloadCommon (1% to 10%): Hypokalemia, hypomagnesemiaVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Hyperkalemia, hypernatremia
Very common (10% or more): ArthrosisCommon (1% to 10%): Transient bone pain, arthralgia, myalgia, generalized painUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Muscle cramps, osteonecrosisPostmarketing reports: Atypical subtrochanteric and diaphyseal femoral fractures
Very common (10% or more): Fever and influenza-like symptoms sometimes accompanied by malaise, rigor, fatigue, flushes, astheniaVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Reactivation of Herpes simplex, reactivation of Herpes zoster
Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Acute respiratory distress syndrome, interstitial lung diseasePostmarketing reports: Adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), interstitial lung disease (ILD)
Common (1% to 10%): Atrial fibrillation, hypertensionUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): HypotensionVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Left ventricular failure (dyspnea, pulmonary edema), congestive heart failure (edema) due to fluid overload
Common (1% to 10%): RashUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Pruritus
Common (1% to 10%): Anemia, thrombocytopenia, lymphocytopenia, leukopenia
Leukopenia was generally mild and transient.
In one study, granulocytopenia occurred in 4.
2% of patients but completely resolved after discontinuation of pamidronate therapy.
Patients with anemia, leukopenia, or thrombocytopenia prior to initiation of pamidronate should be carefully monitored during the first 2 weeks of therapy.
Common (1% to 10%): Reactions at the infusion site (pain, redness, swelling, induration, phlebitis, thrombophlebitis)
Common (1% to 10%): Symptomatic hypocalcemia (tetany, paresthesia), headacheUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Seizures, lethargy, dizzinessVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Confusion
Uveitis generally occurs within 24 to 48 hours after administration of pamidronate.
The uveitis may be bilateral, and reversible, partial 3rd and 4th nerve palsies have been reported with the uveitis.
Recurrences have occurred with rechallenge of the drug.
Therapy with pamidronate should be discontinued if uveitis occurs.
Although severe cases have been reported, most symptoms have resolved on discontinuation of pamidronate with minimal or no intervention.
A nonspecific conjunctivitis has been reported with pamidronate use.
The conjunctivitis may consist of any or all of the following symptoms: conjunctival hyperemia, irritation, epiphora, discharge, and blurred vision.
These symptoms may appear within the first 6 to 48 hours after administration of the drug and generally resolve within a few days after drug discontinuation.
Common (1% to 10%): ConjunctivitisUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Uveitis (iritis, iridocyclitis)Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Scleritis, episcleritis, xanthopsiaFrequency not reported: Optic neuritisPostmarketing reports: Orbital inflammation
Common (1% to 10%): InsomniaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): AgitationVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Visual hallucinations
Common (1% to 10%): Increase in serum creatinineUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Increase in serum urea, acute renal failureRare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis including the collapsing variant, nephrotic syndromeVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Deterioration of pre-existing renal disease, hematuria, renal tubular disorder, tubulointerstitial nephritis, glomerulonephropathy
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Hypothyroidism in patients receiving doses of 90 mg
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Abnormal liver function test
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Allergic reactions including anaphylactoid reactions, bronchospasm/dyspnea, Quincke's (angioneurotic) edemaVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Anaphylactic shock
It is possible that some side effects of pamidronate may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal or stomach cramps
black, tarry stools
bloody in the urine or stools
blurred vision
chest pain
chills
confusion
convulsions (seizures)
decrease in the amount of urine
dizziness
drowsiness
fainting
fast or irregular heartbeat
fever
headache
increased thirst
loss of appetite
muscle pain, cramps, spasms, or twitching
nausea or vomiting
nervousness
noisy, rattling breathing
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
pinpoint red spots on the skin
pounding in the ears
shortness of breath
slow or fast heartbeat
swelling of the fingers, hands, feet, or lower legs
trembling
troubled breathing at rest
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
weight gain
Cough
dilated neck veins
extreme fatigue
irregular breathing
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
swelling
ulcers, sores, or white spots in the mouth
Decreased vision
difficulty with swallowing
eye pain or tenderness
eye redness
hives
itching
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
sensitivity of the eye to light
skin rash
sweating
tearing of the eye
tightness in the chest
Bone, joint, or muscle pain, severe and occasionally incapacitating
faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
Acid or sour stomach
belching
bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
body aches or pain
bone pain
constipation
cracks in the skin at the corners of mouth
diarrhea
difficult, burning, or painful urination
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty moving
ear congestion
fear
frequent urge to urinate
heartburn
indigestion
joint pain
lack or loss of strength
lower back or side pain
muscle aching, cramping, pains, or stiffness
nasal congestion
nervousness
pain and swelling at the injection site
sensitivity to heat
shivering
sneezing
soreness or redness around the fingernails and toenails
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
sweating
swollen joints
trouble sleeping
weight loss
Ammonia-like breath odor
feeling, seeing, or hearing things that are not there
feeling that others are watching you or controlling your behavior
feeling that others can hear your thoughts
feeling unusually cold
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
unusual behavior