Common side effects of Panretin include: pain, pruritus, and skin rash.
Other side effects include: exfoliative dermatitis, disorder of integument, and skin edema.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, alitretinoin topical (the active ingredient contained in Panretin) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking alitretinoin topical, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some alitretinoin topical side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most frequently reported side effects occurred almost exclusively at the application site.
Dermal toxicity began as erythema, which could worsen and result in edema with continued use.
This toxicity may be treatment-limiting, with intense erythema, edema, and vesiculation.
Side effects were typically mild to moderate in severity and led to study withdrawal in  of patients.
During one study, severe local (application site) skin reactions were reported in about  of patients.
Very common ( or more): Rash (up to ), pain , paresthesia (up to ), pruritus (up to )Common ( to ): Exfoliative dermatitis, skin disorder, edema
Side effects occurred almost exclusively at the application site and have included application site rash (term includes erythema, scaling, irritation, redness, dermatitis), pain (term includes burning, pain), pruritus (term includes itching, pruritus), exfoliative dermatitis (term includes flaking, peeling, desquamation, exfoliation), skin disorder (term includes excoriation, cracking, scab, crusting, drainage, eschar, fissure, or oozing), paresthesia (term includes stinging, tingling), and edema (term includes edema, swelling, inflammation).
It is possible that some side effects of Panretin may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abrasion of skin
blisters on skin
burning pain
cracking, crusting, drainage, or oozing of the skin
groove in the skin
peeling of skin
severe rash
skin redness
sloughing of skin
swelling at the site of application
Stinging or tingling of skin
Itching
rash
Increased sensitivity to the sun