As well as its needed effects, chlorhexidine topical (the active ingredient contained in Paroex) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
The most commonly reported side effects include toothache, tongue coating, skin irritation and hypersensitivity reactions.
Very common ( or more): Toothache (up to )Common ( to ): Dry mouth, glossodynia, oral paresthesia, dyspepsia, ulcerative stomatitis, gum hyperplasiaFrequency not reported: Mouth irritation, coated tongue, desquamation/superficial desquamation/oral mucosa swelling, parotid gland swelling, burning sensation of the tongue, increased dental calculus formation, aphthous ulcer, gingivitis/grossly obvious gingivitis, geographic tongue, tooth disorder, dental/gingival/mouth pain, broken/cracked/fractured teeth, mobile teeth, lost bridges/crowns/fillings, discoloration of the teeth, gums, and dorsum of the tonguePostmarketing reports: Stomatitis, glossitis, ulcer, glossal edema, sialadenitis/inflammation of the salivary glands
Toothache occurred most often in patients receiving the periodontal chip, and included dental/gingival/mouth pain, tenderness, aching, throbbing, soreness, discomfort, or sensitivity.
Tooth disorder occurred most often in patients receiving the periodontal chip, and included broken/cracked/fractured teeth, mobile teeth, and lost bridges/crowns/fillings.
Very common ( or more): Upper respiratory tract infection (up to ), sinusitis (up to )Common ( to ): Bronchitis, pharyngitisFrequency not reported: Bronchospasm, rhinitis, coughing, dyspnea
Bronchospasm occurred with hypersensitivity reactions.
Upper respiratory tract infection and sinusitis have occurred most commonly in patients receiving the periodontal chip.
Common ( to ): Ageusia/dysgeusia, hypoesthesiaFrequency not reported: Transient dysgeusia, headache, loss of consciousnessPostmarketing reports: Hypesthesia, paresthesia
Common ( to ): Arthrosis, tendinitisFrequency not reported: Back pain, myalgia, arthralgia
Frequency not reported: Ulceration, desquamation, keratinization, mucocele, short frenum, pain, tenderness, aching, throbbing, soreness, discomfort, sensitivityPostmarketing reports: Minor irritation
Frequency not reported: Rash, erythema/generalized erythema, urticaria, dermatitis, pruritus, eczema, skin irritation, blisters, cold sweat, irritative or allergic skin reactions
Rash, erythema, and urticaria occurred with hypersensitivity reactions.
Dermatitis, pruritus, erythema, eczema, rash, urticaria, skin irritation, and blisters occurred with allergic skin reactions.
Frequency not reported: Chemical burns in neonates, trauma, abscess, influenza-like symptoms, deafness, sensitive tissue irritation
Frequency not reported: Cardiac arrest, circulatory collapse, hypotension, tachycardia, hypertension
Cardiac arrest, circulatory collapse, hypotension, and tachycardia occurred as hypersensitivity reactions.
Frequency not reported: Anaphylactic shock, anaphylactoid reactions/fatal anaphylactic reactionsPostmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis
Frequency not reported: Irreversible corneal damage, irritation to the conjunctiva
Exposure of the eye to chlorhexidine cleanser, generally during preparation for facial surgery, has resulted in eye pain, edema of the epithelium, keratitis, inflammation of the conjunctiva, corneal epithelial cell loss, chronic corneal ulcers, and opacification.
Corneal transplantation to correct permanent damage has been required in some patients.
Allergic conjunctivitis is rarely associated with the use of contact lens solutions which contain low concentrations of chlorhexidine as a preservative.
Hematuria occurred after bladder irrigation.
Frequency not reported: Dysmenorrhea, hematuria
Frequency not reported: Allergy
It is possible that some side effects of Paroex may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
oral liquid, oral solution
Blistering, burning, itching, peeling, skin rash, redness, swelling, or other signs of irritation on the skin
swelling of the face, hands, or feet
trouble breathing