As well as its needed effects, a vaccine may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
It is very important that you tell your doctor about any side effect that occurs after a dose of DTaP-HepB-IPV vaccine, even if the side effect goes away without treatment.
Some types of side effects may mean that your child should not receive any more doses of DTaP-HepB-IPV vaccine.
Some diphtheria toxoid / hepatitis b pediatric vaccine / pertussis, acellular / poliovirus vaccine, inactivated / tetanus toxoid side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Local side effects have included pain, redness, and swelling.
Nervous system side effects have included irritability, fussiness, drowsiness, afebrile and febrile seizures.
Postmarketing reports have included bulging fontanelle, convulsions, depressed level of consciousness, febrile convulsion, hypotonia, hypotonic-hyporesponsive episode, lethargy, and somnolence.
Cardiovascular side effects have included postmarketing reports of cyanosis, pallor, and petechiae.
Psychiatric side effects have included postmarketing reports of crying, insomnia, irritability, nervousness, restlessness, screaming, and unusual crying.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included postmarketing reports of anorexia, diarrhea, and vomiting.
Respiratory side effects have included postmarketing reports of upper respiratory infection, apnea, and dyspnea.
Dermatologic side effects have included angioedema, erythema, rash, and urticaria.
General side effects have included fever.
Immunologic side effects have included postmarketing reports of anaphylactic reaction, anaphylactoid reaction, and hypersensitivity.
It is possible that some side effects of Pediarix may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal or stomach pain
agitation
back pain
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
bluish color of the fingernails, lips, skin, palms, or nail beds
blurred vision
chills
clay colored stools
collapse or shock-like state
coma
confusion
cough
dark urine
diarrhea
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
drowsiness
fast heartbeat
fever
hallucinations
headache
heavier menstrual periods
hives or hive like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
hoarseness
irritability
irritation
itchiness, puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, tongue, hands, or feet
itching
joint pain
loosening of the skin
mood or mental changes
nausea
pain or cramping in the abdomen or stomach
pinpoint red spots on the skin
redness of the skin
red, irritated eyes
seizures
shortness of breath
skin rash
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
stiff neck
stiffness or swelling
Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS)
swelling
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting or vomiting of blood
weight loss
wheezing
yellow eyes or skin
Bleeding
blistering
burning
coldness
discoloration of the skin
fussiness
feeling of pressure
infection
inflammation
lumps
numbness
pain
restlessness
scarring
sleeping more than usual
soreness
stinging
tenderness
tingling
ulceration
unusual cry
warmth on the skin
Arm or leg swelling
difficulty with moving
dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness
feeling of warmth
general feeling of discomfort or illness
hair loss
itching skin
lack or loss of strength
loss of appetite
loss of strength or energy
muscle pain, weakness, or stiffness
pain in the joints
paleness of the skin
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
sneezing
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
swollen, painful, or tender lymph glands in the neck, armpit, or groin
thinning of the hair