As well as its needed effects, peginterferon alfa-a may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking peginterferon alfa-a, check with your doctor immediately:
Some peginterferon alfa-a side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
During hepatitis C studies, at least  serious side effect was reported in  of chronic hepatitis C (CHC) patients and  of CHC patients coinfected with HIV.
The most common serious side effect was bacterial infection (including sepsis, osteomyelitis, endocarditis, pyelonephritis, pneumonia).
Other serious side effects were suicide, suicidal ideation, psychosis, aggression, anxiety, drug abuse and drug overdose, angina, hepatic dysfunction, fatty liver, cholangitis, arrhythmia, diabetes mellitus, autoimmune phenomena (, hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, sarcoidosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis), peripheral neuropathy, aplastic anemia, peptic ulcer, gastrointestinal bleeding, pancreatitis, colitis, corneal ulcer, pulmonary embolism, coma, myositis, cerebral hemorrhage, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, psychotic disorder, and hallucination.
The most common side effects were psychiatric reactions (including depression, insomnia, irritability, anxiety), influenza-like symptoms (such as fatigue, pyrexia, myalgia, headache, rigors), anorexia, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, arthralgias, injection site reactions, alopecia, and pruritus.
Psychiatric disorders, influenza-like syndrome (, lethargy, fatigue, headache), dermatologic disorders, gastrointestinal disorders, and laboratory abnormalities (thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, anemia) were the most common reasons for discontinuation of therapy.
In clinical trials, patients with chronic hepatitis B had similar side effects as CHC patients using peginterferon alfa-a monotherapy, except for exacerbations of hepatitis.
The most common or important serious side effects in the hepatitis B studies were infections (sepsis, appendicitis, tuberculosis, influenza), hepatitis B flares, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, pyrexia, headache, fatigue, myalgia, alopecia, and anorexia.
Therapy was discontinued most often due to laboratory abnormalities (neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, ALT elevation).
Very common ( or more): Dizziness (up to ), headache (up to ), concentration impairmentCommon ( to ): Vertigo, syncope, migraine, memory impairment, weakness, hypoesthesia, hyperesthesia, paresthesia, tremor, taste disturbance, somnolence, tinnitusUncommon ( to ): Peripheral neuropathy, hearing lossRare ( to ): Cerebral hemorrhage, coma, convulsions, facial palsyFrequency not reported: Cerebral ischemia, chorea and akathisiaPostmarketing reports: Seizures, hearing impairment
Headache (monotherapy: up to ; combination therapy: ), dizziness excluding vertigo (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ), and memory impairment (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ) have been reported in CHC patients.
Tinnitus was reported in up to  of CHC patients coinfected with HIV using peginterferon alfa-a plus ribavirin.
A -year-old male coinfected with hepatitis C virus and HIV experienced chorea and akathisia coincident with peginterferon alfa-a therapy.
He was administered subcutaneous peginterferon alfa-a  mcg weekly and oral ribavirin  g daily.
At week  of therapy, the patient presented to the clinic complaining of irritability, difficulty in sleeping, and prominent choreiform involuntary movements with myoclonic activity of the upper and lower extremities.
He was diagnosed with chorea and akathisia.
He was treated with ropinirole, propranolol, and clonazepam.
Peginterferon alfa-a and ribavirin were discontinued with complete resolution of symptoms after  days.
Very common ( or more): Influenza-like signs/symptoms, fatigue/asthenia (up to ), pyrexia (up to ), fatigue (up to ), rigors (up to ), asthenia (up to ), pain (up to ), overall resistance mechanism disorders (up to )Common ( to ): Fever, chills, chest pain, influenza-like illness, malaise, lethargy, shivering, hot flushes, thirst, infections (fungal, viral, bacterial), peripheral edema, flushing, earacheRare ( to ): Mucosal hyperpigmentation, otitis externa, substance overdoseFrequency not reported: Bacterial infections (, sepsis, osteomyelitis, endocarditis, pyelonephritis, pneumonia), infections (appendicitis, tuberculosis, influenza)
Influenza-like signs and symptoms (fatigue/asthenia [monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ], pyrexia [monotherapy: up to ; combination therapy: ], rigors [monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ], pain [monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ]) and overall resistance mechanism disorders (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ) have been reported in CHC patients.
The most common or important serious side effects reported during hepatitis B studies have included infections (sepsis, appendicitis, tuberculosis, influenza).
Fatigue has been reported in  of patients during hepatitis B studies.
Myalgia (monotherapy: up to ; combination therapy: ), arthralgia (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ), and back pain (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ) have been reported in CHC patients.
Very common ( or more): Myalgia (up to ), arthralgia (up to )Common ( to ): Back pain, arthritis, muscle weakness, bone pain, neck pain, musculoskeletal pain, muscle crampsRare ( to ): MyositisFrequency not reported: Rhabdomyolysis
Very common ( or more): Neutropenia (up to ), anemia (up to ), lymphopenia (up to )Common ( to ): Thrombocytopenia, lymphadenopathyRare ( to ): PancytopeniaVery rare (less than ): Aplastic anemia, idiopathic or thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpuraFrequency not reported: Leukopenia, decreased hemoglobin, decreased absolute CD+ cell count (without decrease in CD+ cell percentage)Postmarketing reports: Pure red cell aplasia
Neutropenia (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: up to ), lymphopenia (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ), anemia (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: up to ), and thrombocytopenia (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: up to ) have been reported in CHC patients.
Moderate (absolute neutrophil count [ANC]  to  x []/L: ) and severe (ANC less than  x []/L: ) neutropenia was reported in patients using peginterferon alfa-a plus ribavirin for  weeks.
In  study, CHC patients with advanced fibrosis or cirrhosis and baseline platelet counts as low as ,/mm were treated for  weeks.
Hematologic laboratory abnormalities in the first  weeks included ANC less than /mm , hemoglobin less than  g/dL , and platelets less than ,/mm .
Neutropenia , anemia , and thrombocytopenia  have been reported during treatment with peginterferon alfa-a plus ribavirin in CHC patients coinfected with HIV.
Decrease in ANC levels below  cells/mm (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ), decrease in platelets below ,/mm (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ), and hemoglobin less than  g/dL (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: up to ) were reported in coinfected patients.
Laboratory abnormalities (thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, anemia) were among the most common reasons given for discontinuation of therapy.
The most common or important serious side effects reported during hepatitis B studies have included thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura.
Gastrointestinal side effects were among the most common reasons given for discontinuation of therapy.
Nausea/vomiting (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ), diarrhea (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ), abdominal pain (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ), dry mouth (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ), and dyspepsia (monotherapy: less than ; combination therapy: ) have been reported in CHC patients.
Cheilitis was reported in up to  of CHC patients coinfected with HIV using peginterferon alfa-a plus ribavirin.
Very common ( or more): Nausea (up to ), diarrhea (up to ), nausea/vomiting (up to ), abdominal pain (up to ), vomiting (up to ), upper abdominal pain (up to )Common ( to ): Dry mouth, dyspepsia, dysphagia, mouth ulceration, gingival bleeding, glossitis, stomatitis, flatulence, gastritis, gingivitis, cheilitis, constipation, oral candidiasisUncommon ( to ): Gastrointestinal bleedingRare ( to ): Tongue hyperpigmentation, peptic ulcer, pancreatitisFrequency not reported: Colitis, ischemic colitis, reversible pancreatic reaction (i.
e.
, increased amylase/lipase with or without abdominal pain)Postmarketing reports: Tongue pigmentation
Very common ( or more): Insomnia (up to ), irritability/anxiety/nervousness (up to ), irritability (up to ), depression (up to ), anxietyCommon ( to ): Concentration impairment, mood alteration, nightmares, aggression, emotional disorders, nervousness, decreased libido, affect lability, apathyUncommon ( to ): Suicidal ideation, hallucinationsRare ( to ): Suicide, psychotic disorderFrequency not reported: Psychosis, relapse of drug abuse/overdose, impairment of desire, sexual satisfaction affected (potentially), sexual dysfunction, mania, bipolar disordersPostmarketing reports: Homicidal ideation
Psychiatric side effects were among the most common reasons given for discontinuation of therapy.
Irritability/anxiety/nervousness (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ), insomnia (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ), depression (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ), concentration impairment (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ), and mood alteration (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ) have been reported in CHC patients.
Affect lability and apathy were reported in up to  of CHC patients coinfected with HIV using peginterferon alfa-a plus ribavirin.
Impairment of desire, sexual satisfaction affected (potentially), and sexual dysfunction have been reported with peginterferon alfa-a plus ribavirin in male patients.
Dermatologic side effects were among the most common reasons given for discontinuation of therapy.
Alopecia (monotherapy: up to ; combination therapy: ), pruritus (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ), dermatitis (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ), dry skin (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ), increased sweating (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ), rash (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ), and eczema (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ) have been reported in CHC patients.
Lipodystrophy acquired was reported in up to  of CHC patients coinfected with HIV using peginterferon alfa-a plus ribavirin.
Skin disorders associated with combination therapy have included lichenoid eruptions and maculopapular rashes.
Very common ( or more): Alopecia (up to ), pruritus (up to ), dermatitis (up to ), rash (up to ), dry skin (up to )Common ( to ): Increased sweating, eczema, psoriasis, urticaria, skin disorder, photosensitivity reaction, night sweats, herpes simplex, lipodystrophy acquiredUncommon ( to ): Skin infectionVery rare (less than ): Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, angioedema, erythema multiformeFrequency not reported: Lichenoid eruptions, maculopapular rashes, drug-induced Sweet's syndromePostmarketing reports: Serious skin reactions
Injection site reactions (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ) have been reported in CHC patients.
Skin disorders associated with combination therapy have included cutaneous necrosis at peginterferon alfa-a injection sites.
Very common ( or more): Injection site reactions (up to )Frequency not reported: Cutaneous necrosis at injection sites, hyperpigmentation around/over injection sites
Very common ( or more): Elevated ALT (up to )Common ( to ): Hepatic decompensationUncommon ( to ): Hepatic dysfunctionRare ( to ): Hepatic failure, fatty liver, cholangitisFrequency not reported: Elevated ALT occasionally associated with hyperbilirubinemia, exacerbations of hepatitis, hepatitis B flares, increased bilirubin
Transient ALT elevations reported during hepatitis B therapy.
ALT elevation greater than -fold higher than the upper limit of normal was reported in  and  during treatment and  and  posttreatment in HBeAg-negative and HBeAg-positive patients, respectively.
Hepatic decompensation has been reported in  of CHC patients coinfected with HIV.
The most common or important serious side effects reported during hepatitis B studies have included hepatitis B flares.
Very common ( or more): Anorexia (up to ), weight decrease (up to ), decreased appetite (up to )Common ( to ): Hyperlactacidemia/lactic acidosisUncommon ( to ): Dehydration, diabetes mellitusRare ( to ): Diabetic ketoacidosisFrequency not reported: Elevated triglycerides, electrolyte disturbance (hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia), hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia
Anorexia (monotherapy: up to ; combination therapy: ) and weight decrease (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ) have been reported in CHC patients.
Hyperlactacidemia/lactic acidosis was reported in up to  of CHC patients coinfected with HIV using peginterferon alfa-a plus ribavirin.
Dyspnea (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ), cough (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ), and exertional dyspnea (monotherapy: less than ; combination therapy: ) have been reported in CHC patients.
Pneumonia, influenza, and pharyngolaryngeal pain were reported in up to  of CHC patients coinfected with HIV using peginterferon alfa-a plus ribavirin.
Very common ( or more): Cough (up to ), dyspnea (up to )Common ( to ): Pharyngitis, exertional dyspnea, epistaxis, nasopharyngitis, sinus congestion, nasal congestion, rhinitis, sore throat, bronchitis, upper respiratory tract infection, pulmonary congestion, chest tightness, pneumonia, influenza, pharyngolaryngeal painUncommon ( to ): WheezingRare ( to ): Interstitial pneumonitis (including fatalities), pulmonary embolismFrequency not reported: Lower respiratory tract infection
Examples of autoimmune phenomena include hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, sarcoidosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, immune thrombocytopenic purpura, thyroiditis, psoriasis.
Sarcoidosis was reported in a -year-old man at the th month of therapy.
Most of the symptoms improved over the next  months after discontinuation of therapy.
Common ( to ): Development of neutralizing anti-interferon antibodiesUncommon ( to ): SarcoidosisRare ( to ): Systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritisFrequency not reported: Autoimmune phenomena, development of binding antibodies to peginterferon alfa-a, Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada diseasePostmarketing reports: Liver graft rejection, renal graft rejectionAlpha interferons:-Frequency not reported: Development or exacerbation of autoimmune disorders (including myositis, hepatitis, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, interstitial nephritis, thyroiditis, systemic lupus erythematosus)
Common ( to ): Tachycardia, palpitationsUncommon ( to ): HypertensionRare ( to ): Myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, cardiomyopathy, angina, arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, pericarditis, supraventricular tachycardia, endocarditis, vasculitisFrequency not reported: Peripheral ischemia
Blurred vision (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ) has been reported in CHC patients.
Common ( to ): Blurred vision, eye pain, eye inflammation, xerophthalmiaUncommon ( to ): Retinal hemorrhageRare ( to ): Optic neuropathy, papilledema, retinal vascular disorder, retinopathy, corneal ulcersVery rare (less than ): Vision lossPostmarketing reports: Serous retinal detachment
Hypothyroidism (monotherapy: ; combination therapy: ) has been reported in CHC patients.
Common ( to ): Hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, clinically significant abnormal thyroid laboratory valuesUncommon ( to ): Thyroiditis
Chromaturia was reported in up to  of CHC patients coinfected with HIV using peginterferon alfa-a plus ribavirin.
Common ( to ): Impotence, chromaturia
Uncommon ( to ): Hepatic neoplasmFrequency not reported: Malignant hepatic neoplasm
Rare ( to ): AnaphylaxisFrequency not reported: Anaphylactic shock
Anaphylactic shock has been reported during hepatitis B studies.
Rare ( to ): Renal insufficiency
It is possible that some side effects of peginterferon alfa-a may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Black, tarry stools
chills
cough
discouragement
feeling sad or empty
fever
irritability
lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
shortness of breath
sore throat
tiredness
trouble sleeping
trouble with concentrating
ulcers, sores, or white spots in the mouth
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bone pain
chest pain or discomfort
confusion
constipation
depressed mood
dizziness
dry skin and hair
fainting
fast heartbeat
feeling cold
hair loss
headache
heart murmur
hives
hoarseness or husky voice
lightheadedness
muscle cramps and stiffness
pale skin
rapid, shallow breathing
slowed heartbeat
sneezing
stomach pain
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing with exertion
weight gain
Back pain
blistering, crusting, irritation, itching, or reddening of the skin
cracked, dry, scaly skin
diarrhea
dry mouth
fear
feeling unusually cold, shivering
hair loss or thinning of the hair
muscle or joint pain
nervousness
numbness
pain
rash
redness
scarring
soreness
stinging
stomach pain
swelling
tenderness
tingling
ulceration
vomiting
warmth
Acid or sour stomach
belching
blurred vision
heartburn
indigestion
memory problems
stomach discomfort or upset
Change of hearing
loss of hearing