As well as its needed effects, penbutolol may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some penbutolol side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Some penbutolol side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Penbutolol is generally well tolerated in selected patients.
In one study of  hypertensive patients who took penbutolol for eight weeks,  reported side effects.
The incidence of side effects appeared to decrease with continued therapy.
Less than  of patients discontinue therapy due to side effects.
Nervous system are the most common.
General tiredness is reported in , headache in , and dizziness in  of patients.
Dizziness may be related to orthostatic hypotension.
Peripheral paresthesias are rarely described, and may be due to the peripheral cardiovascular side effects of the drug.
Penbutolol may rarely be associated with sleeping problems.
One double-blinded, placebo-controlled study in  hypertensive patients who suffered recurrent bouts of Raynaud's phenomenon showed that penbutolol  mg twice a day did not produce any additional vasoconstrictor effect on digital circulation as measured by skin thermometry, time to induce symptoms, or superficial skin blood flow.
Cardiovascular effects of penbutolol (decreased blood pressure or heart rate) can be problematic.
Bradycardia and postural hypotension occur in approximately  and  of patients, respectively.
Dizziness is reported in  of patients and may be related to hypotension or bradycardia in some cases.
Because penbutolol decreases myocardial contractility, new or worsened heart failure is seen in rare, isolated cases, usually in patients with preexisting left ventricular systolic dysfunction.
Dyspnea on exertion or AV block have been associated with penbutolol in rare cases.
Penbutolol can have a deleterious effect on the serum lipid profile, which may be important in some patients with or at risk for coronary artery disease.
Peripheral cardiovascular effects usually present as cold extremities or paresthesias.
Respiratory side effects including respiratory insufficiency can develop due to beta--adrenergic receptor blockade (inhibition of bronchial dilation).
This can result in asthmatic symptoms in  of patients and can be more likely or more severe in patients with preexisting reactive airways disease.
Gastrointestinal side effects include nausea or vomiting in , abdominal pain in , flatulence in , and dry mouth in  of patients.
Endocrine side effects have been reported.
Some patients with diabetes or thyrotoxicosis are at risk for masking the signs or symptoms of their diseases (sweating, tachycardia, hypoglycemia) during penbutolol therapy.
Like some other beta-blockers with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity, penbutolol may cause significant increases in serum triglycerides and decreases in HDL cholesterol.
Renal side effects of penbutolol appear to be of no significance.
Data show that glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma blood flow are not significantly affected when blood pressure is lowered using therapeutic doses in patients with chronic renal insufficiency.
Musculoskeletal side effects including muscular fatigue or cramping is rare.
No other musculoskeletal complaints have been reported.
Hypersensitivity reactions have not been reported during penbutolol therapy, but have been associated with other beta-blockers.
These reactions have presented as erythema, fever with sore throat, laryngospasm, and respiratory distress.
Hematologic side effects (including laboratory abnormalities) have not been associated with penbutolol.
The manufacturer, however, states that agranulocytosis and both thrombocytopenic and nonthrombocytopenic purpura have been associated with other beta-blockers.
It is possible that some side effects of penbutolol may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Chest pain
difficult or labored breathing
increased sweating
pain in the limbs
shortness of breath
tightness in the chest
wheezing
Abdominal or stomach tenderness
abdominal or stomach pain, usually after eating a meal
black, tarry stools
blood in the urine
bloody nose
bloody stools
constipation
cough or hoarseness
diarrhea
fever with or without chills or sore throat
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
heavier menstrual periods
lower back or side pain
nausea
painful or difficult urination
pinpoint red spots on the skin
rectal bleeding
skin rash
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
worsening of heart block
Blurred vision
chest pain or discomfort
confusion
difficulty with breathing
dilated neck veins
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
extreme fatigue
irregular breathing
noisy breathing
slow or irregular heartbeat
sweating
swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or lower legs
weight gain
Headache 
Acid or sour stomach
belching
body aches or pain
chills
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
fever
heartburn
indigestion
lack or loss of strength
loss of voice
nasal congestion
nausea
runny nose
sleeplessness
sneezing
sore throat
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep
Decreased interest in sexual intercourse
inability to have or keep an erection
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
Crying
decreased awareness or responsiveness
depersonalization
dysphoria
euphoria
hair loss or thinning of the hair
memory loss
mental depression
mimicry of speech or movements
mutism
negativism
pain of the penis on erection
paranoia
peculiar postures or movements, mannerisms or grimacing
quick to react or overreact emotionally
rapidly changing moods
reddened skin
severe sleepiness
skin rash