As well as its needed effects, pentosan polysulfate sodium may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking pentosan polysulfate sodium, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some pentosan polysulfate sodium side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Gastrointestinal side effects have been reported the most frequently.
These have included nausea, diarrhea, dyspepsia, vomiting, and rectal hemorrhage.
In a phase 4 study of patients with interstitial cystitis (n=380) taking pentosan polysulfate sodium, the incidence of rectal hemorrhage was reported at 15% in patients taking doses of 900 mg/day versus 6.
3% in patients taking the recommended daily dosage of 300 mg/day.
Dermatologic side effects have included alopecia, pruritus, and urticaria.
Nervous system side effects have included headache (3%) and dizziness (1%).
Hyperkinesia, insomnia, and depression have also been reported.
Hematologic side effects have included anemia, ecchymosis, increased prothrombin time, increased partial thromboplastin time, and thrombocytopenia.
There have been case reports of thrombocytopenia similar to heparin induced thrombocytopenia associated with a parenteral form of pentosan polysulfate sodium.
It should be used with caution in patients with a history of heparin induced thrombocytopenia.
Hepatic side effects have included liver function abnormalities: mildly elevated (<2.
5 normal) transaminase, alkaline phosphatase, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, and lactic dehydrogenase.
Respiratory side effects have included pharyngitis, rhinitis, epistaxis, and dyspnea.
Ocular side effects have included conjunctivitis, optic neuritis, amblyopia, and retinal hemorrhage.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included allergic reactions and photosensitivity.
It is possible that some side effects of pentosan polysulfate sodium may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Chills
difficulty in breathing
fever
skin rash or hives
sore throat
unusual bleeding or bruising 
unusual tiredness or weakness
vision impairment
Abdominal pain
bleeding gums
constipation
diarrhea
difficulty or pain upon swallowing
dizziness
dryness of throat
hair loss
headache
heartburn
increased sensitivity of skin to sunlight
irritated or red eyes
itching
loss of appetite
nausea
nosebleed
ringing in the ears
runny nose
sores in mouth
stomach gas
stomach upset
vomiting