As well as its needed effects, naloxone / pentazocine may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some naloxone / pentazocine side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
A -year-old male narcotic addict and alcoholic with hepatitis and undiscovered cardiomyopathy was given  mg of naloxone intravenously over a  minute period and developed ventricular fibrillation.
The patient required naloxone once more for this episode and again developed ventricular fibrillation.
A second opioid overdose in the same patient was treated with an initial dose of  mg intravenously, followed by  mg intravenously, then intramuscularly.
Each time the patient developed ventricular fibrillation responsive to cardioversion and/or lidocaine.
Severe hypertension (mean arterial pressure rising from a baseline of  mmHg to  mmHg in about  to  hours) has been reported in an essential hypertension patient given an initial  mg dose of naloxone intravenously, followed by an infusion of  mg/min over the next  hours.
When the naloxone was discontinued the blood pressure quickly returned to normal.
Mild hypotension and one case of moderate hypertension were observed in patients receiving a bolus dose of  mg/kg of naloxone followed by  mg/kg/hour for  hours.
One study reported that the newborn infants of mothers who have received naloxone near term may experience tachycardia.
Cardiovascular side effects with the use of naloxone have included hypotension, hypertension, atrial and ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, left ventricular failure and cardiac arrest (mostly in postoperative patients, many of whom had cardiovascular disease).
Cardiovascular side effects including a decrease in blood pressure and tachycardia have been reported infrequently with the use of pentazocine.
Withdrawal syndromes from the use of naloxone may be precipitated by as little as  to  mg intravenously in patients taking  mg per day of methadone.
Other side effect including withdrawal in patients receiving opioids have been precipitated by naloxone.
Withdrawal is characterized by nausea, vomiting, sweating, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, cramping, insomnia, chills/hot flashes, piloerection, tachycardia, anxiety, restlessness, irritability, tremulousness, hypertension, seizures, and cardiac arrest.
Similar symptoms have been noted in patients with pruritus of cholestasis who were not receiving opiates.
Other side effects including tinnitus have been reported with the use of pentazocine.
Three cases, treated with numerous drugs, developed clinical evidence of pulmonary edema shortly after intravenous administration of naloxone ( to  mg).
Respiratory side effects including pulmonary edema have been uncommon from the use of naloxone.
Respiratory side effects including respiratory depression have rarely been reported with the use of pentazocine.
A -year-old male was given  mg of naloxone for obtundation.
Within  seconds of administration a grand mal seizure occurred.
The patient had Pseudomonas sepsis with negative CSF cultures.
Nervous system side effects including seizures and paresthesias have been reported at both standard and high dosages of naloxone.
Seizures have been reported in  of patients receiving a bolus of  mg/kg followed by  mg/kg/h for  hours.
Agitation has been noted in ,  tremors in , and headache in .
Rarely, agitation, tremors, headache, alteration in mood and cognition, mental discomfort, sleepiness, and confusion have been reported at high dosages.
Lethargy has been reported in manic and control patients.
Naloxone administration may worsen obsessive compulsive behavior.
Nervous system side effects including sweating, dizziness, lightheadedness, hallucinations, sedation, euphoria, headache, confusion, and disorientation have been reported with the use of pentazocine.
Weakness, flushing, disturbed dreams, insomnia, and syncope have been reported infrequently.
Tremor, chills, paresthesia, irritability, and excitement have been reported rarely.
Gastrointestinal side effects of nausea and vomiting have been reported in patients receiving high dose naloxone therapy.
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea and vomiting have been reported with the use of pentazocine.
Constipation has been reported infrequently.
Abdominal distress, anorexia, and diarrhea have been reported rarely.
Nausea and/or vomiting occurred in  of patients in one study on naloxone who received a bolus of  mg/kg followed by  mg/kg/h for  hours.
Genitourinary side effects including an increase in urinary urgency have rarely been reported with the use of naloxone.
The drug may also have a mild diuretic effect.
Genitourinary side effects including urinary retention have rarely been reported with the use of pentazocine.
A -year-old was treated with naloxone for senile dementia.
A dosage of  mg in  mL of normal saline was given as an infusion over  minutes.
The treatment was given  times, each time the patient experienced urinary urgency (at least  small volume urinations over  hours).
Depression of the white blood cell count is usually reversible.
Hematologic side effects including depression of the white blood cell count (especially granulocytes) and moderate transient eosinophilia have been reported with the use of pentazocine.
Hypersensitivity reactions including rash have been reported infrequently.
Urticaria and edema of the face have been reported rarely with the use of pentazocine.
One instance of an apparent anaphylactic reaction has been reported.
Dermatologic side effects including erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported rarely with the use of pentazocine.
Ocular side effects including visual blurring and focusing difficulty have been reported infrequently with the use of pentazocine.
Psychiatric side effects including depression have been reported infrequently with the use of pentazocine.
It is possible that some side effects of naloxone / pentazocine may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Black, tarry stools
chest pain
chills
cough or hoarseness
difficult or troubled breathing
fever
fever with or without chills
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
irregular, fast or slow, or shallow breathing
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
pale or blue lips, fingernails, or skin
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swollen glands
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
confusion
decrease in the frequency of urination
diarrhea
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fainting
fast, slow, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
feeling of warmth
headache
hives
itching
joint or muscle pain
loss of bladder control
loss of consciousness
nervousness
pounding in the ears
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rapid breathing
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
skin rash
sweating
swelling of the lower legs or arms
swelling of the face
tightness in the chest
total body jerking
upper abdominal or stomach pain
weight gain
wheezing
Seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
seizures (convulsions)
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness 
Abdominal or stomach distress
hives or welts
redness of the skin
Blistering, crusting, irritation, itching, or reddening of the skin
confusion about identity, place, and time
constipation
constricted, pinpoint, or small pupils (black part of the eye)
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
cracked, dry, or scaly skin
depression
difficulty in focusing the eyes
disturbed dreams
drowsiness
dry mouth
excitement
false or unusual sense of well-being
hearing loss
irritability
lightheadedness
loss of appetite
mood or mental changes
nausea
relaxed and calm feeling
trouble with sleeping
unable to sleep
vomiting
weakness
weight loss