As well as its needed effects, diphtheria toxoid / haemophilus b conjugate (prp-t) vaccine / pertussis, acellular / poliovirus vaccine, inactivated / tetanus toxoid may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking diphtheria toxoid / haemophilus b conjugate (prp-t) vaccine / pertussis, acellular / poliovirus vaccine, inactivated / tetanus toxoid, check with your doctor immediately:
Some diphtheria toxoid / haemophilus b conjugate (prp-t) vaccine / pertussis, acellular / poliovirus vaccine, inactivated / tetanus toxoid side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Cardiovascular side effects have included cyanosis, and pallor.
Dermatologic side effects have included erythema and skin discoloration.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included vomiting, diarrhea, decreased appetite, gastroenteritis, and dehydration.
General side effects have included fever, decreased activity, lethargy, inconsolable crying, fussiness, screaming, and irritability.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included rash and urticaria.
Local side effects have included redness, swelling, tenderness, and an increase in arm circumference.
Nervous system side effects have included hypotonic-hyporesponsive episodes, seizures, depressed level of consciousness, encephalopathy, meningitis, and somnolence.
Respiratory side effects have included rhinitis, bronchiolitis, pneumonia, apnea, and cough.
It is possible that some side effects of Pentacel may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal or stomach pain
chest pain
confusion
coughing or shortness of breath
crying, persistent and inconsolable, occurring within 48 hours and lasting 3 or more hours
decreased urination
diarrhea
dizziness
dry mouth
fainting
fever
increase in heart rate
lightheadedness
loss of appetite
nausea
noisy breathing
rapid breathing
shortness of breath
sneezing
sore throat
sunken eyes
thirst
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
wrinkled skin
Bluish color of the fingernails, lips, skin, palms, or nail beds
chills
cold or flu-like symptoms
drowsiness
fast heartbeat
general feeling of illness
hives
hoarseness
irritation
itching
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
rash
redness of the skin
runny nose
severe headache
slow breathing
sneezing
stiff neck or back
stuffy nose
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, hands, or feet
Irritability
tenderness at the injection site
unusual drowsiness, dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness
Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site
change in skin color at the injection site
paleness of the skin
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
vomiting