As well as its needed effects, pentoxifylline (the active ingredient contained in Pentoxil) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking pentoxifylline, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some pentoxifylline side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Pentoxifylline (the active ingredient contained in Pentoxil) has been generally well tolerated.
While typically minor, side effects have necessitated discontinuation of the drug in approximately 3% of treated patients.
Tolerance to mild side effects generally has developed with continued use.
Gastrointestinal side effects have been the most common side effects associated with pentoxifylline (the active ingredient contained in Pentoxil) therapy and have included dyspepsia, nausea, vomiting, and belching, which occurred in 1% to 3% of patients.
Some smaller studies have reported gastrointestinal disturbance in up to 33% of patients treated with pentoxifylline.
Nervous system side effects have occurred in 1% to 2% of treated patients and have included headache, dizziness, insomnia, and tremor.
Some smaller studies have reported nervous system adverse effects in up to 17% of treated patients.
In addition, rare cases of visual and auditory hallucinations have been reported.
Aseptic meningitis has been reported in postmarketing experiences.
Cardiovascular side effects have included reports of palpitations, flushing, and angina.
These reports have usually been associated with higher doses of an immediate release capsule which is not available in the United States.
Hematologic side effects have included anecdotal reports of pancytopenia and fatal aplastic anemia.
Hepatic side effects have included postmarketing reports of cholestasis.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included postmarketing reports of anaphylactic reaction, anaphylactoid reaction, and anaphylactic shock.
It is possible that some side effects of Pentoxil may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Chest pain
irregular heartbeat
Drowsiness
flushing
faintness
unusual excitement
convulsions (seizures)
Dizziness
headache
nausea or vomiting
stomach discomfort