As well as its needed effects, dipyridamole (the active ingredient contained in Persantine) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking dipyridamole, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some dipyridamole side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Generally, oral administration of dipyridamole (the active ingredient contained in Persantine) has been well tolerated.
Adverse effects during intravenous (IV) administration have occurred in 40% to 55% of patients.
The majority of dipyridamole-induced adverse effects resulting from IV administration can be reversed by intravenous aminophylline.
Cardiovascular symptoms have been the most frequently reported adverse effects associated with dipyridamole (the active ingredient contained in Persantine)  particularly when given intravenously.
Ischemia and angina have been reported following oral administration.
Intravenous administration has been associated with chest pain (20% to 25%), ST segment depression (8% to 20%), facial flushing (2%), and severe ischemia (2.
5%).
Atrial and ventricular premature beats, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, bradycardia, asystole, sinus arrest, and myocardial infarction have also been reported.
Hypotension may occur, with an average decrease in mean arterial pressure of 5% to 10%.
Chest pain, ischemia, and myocardial infarction associated with dipyridamole may be due to a phenomenon known as coronary "steal".
Coronary steal involves shunting of blood flow away from an ischemic area where diseased vessels are already maximally dilated, to non-diseased areas when dipyridamole administration has resulted in vasodilation.
Myocardial infarction has been reported in patients with unstable angina.
Aminophylline, an adenosine-receptor antagonist, may be used to reverse some of the effects of dipyridamole, including chest pain and bronchospasm.
Intravenous aminophylline should be available during myocardial imaging.
Nervous system effects have occurred following intravenous and oral administration of dipyridamole (the active ingredient contained in Persantine) and included headache (12.
2%), lightheadedness or dizziness (11.
8%), and paresthesias (1.
3%).
Cerebrovascular accident following intravenous administration also has been reported.
In one case report, a patient with asthma developed sudden bronchospasm with wheezing, coughing, and dyspnea immediately after receiving IV dipyridamole (the active ingredient contained in Persantine) during thallium stress testing.
Symptoms and hypoxemia resolved within 5 minutes after administration of IV aminophylline.
Respiratory tract adverse effects may occur, especially in patients with pre-existing asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Dyspnea, bronchospasm, and respiratory arrest have been reported.
Gastrointestinal disturbances associated with dipyridamole (the active ingredient contained in Persantine) therapy have included nausea and vomiting in up to 5% of patients.
Gallstones containing dipyridamole have been reported in patients on long-term dipyridamole therapy.
Hematologic abnormalities have included rare bleeding complications due to the platelet inhibitory effects of dipyridamole (the active ingredient contained in Persantine) 
In one small study, dipyridamole (the active ingredient contained in Persantine) induced a marked but reversible reduction in glomerular filtration rate in patients with elevated renin-angiotensin activity and ascites due to cirrhosis.
Sodium and free water excretion were reduced as well.
Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported rarely and included angioedema and anaphylaxis.
It is possible that some side effects of Persantine may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Chest pain
gallstones
tightness or swelling of neck
yellow eyes or skin
Abdominal or stomach cramps
diarrhea 
dizziness or lightheadedness
Flushing
headache
nausea or vomiting
weakness
General discomfort and/or unusual tiredness or weakness
hair loss
joint pain or swelling
muscle pain
runny nose
sneezing