As well as its needed effects, probenecid may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking probenecid, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following side effects occur while taking probenecid, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some probenecid side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
In therapeutic doses, probenecid is generally well tolerated and has a low incidence of side effects.
Frequency not reported: Anaphylaxis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, urticaria, pruritus
Frequency not provided: Precipitation of acute gouty arthritis
Frequency not reported: Uric acid stones with or without hematuria, costovertebral pain, urinary frequency
Frequency not reported: Nephrotic syndrome, with or without renal failure
Glucose--phosphate dehydrogenase (G--PD) deficiency may increase the risk of probenecid-induced hemolytic anemia in some patients.
However, probenecid has also been implicated in at least two cases of immune-mediated hemolytic anemia.
In both cases, serum antibodies reacted with red blood cells only in the presence of probenecid.
In one patient, a generalized rash, fever, malaise, and anorexia were also present.
Rarely (less than ): Aplastic anemia, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia Frequency not reported: Anemia, hemolytic anemia (which could be related to genetic deficiency of glucose--phosphate-dehydrogenase (GPD) in red blood cells)
Frequency not reported: Anorexia, nausea, vomiting, sore gums
Rare (less than ): Hepatic necrosis
Frequency not reported: Headache, dizziness
Rare (less than ): Toxic epidermal necrolysis (in combination with colchicine) Frequency not reported: Dermatitis, alopecia, flushing
It is possible that some side effects of probenecid may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Fast or irregular breathing
puffiness or swellings of the eyelids or around the eyes
shortness of breath, troubled breathing, tightness in chest, or wheezing
changes in the skin color of the face occurring together with any of the other side effects listed here
or skin rash, hives, or itching occurring together with any of the other side effects listed here
Bloody urine
difficult or painful urination 
lower back or side pain (especially if severe or sharp)
skin rash, hives, or itching (occurring without other signs of an allergic reaction)
Cloudy urine
cough or hoarseness
fast or irregular breathing
fever
pain in back and/or ribs
sores, ulcers, or white spots on lips or in mouth
sore throat and fever with or without chills
sudden decrease in the amount of urine
swelling of face, fingers, feet, and/or lower legs
swollen and/or painful glands 
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
yellow eyes or skin 
weight gain
Headache
joint pain, redness, or swelling 
loss of appetite
nausea or vomiting (mild)
Dizziness
flushing or redness of face (occurring without any signs of an allergic reaction)
frequent urge to urinate
sore gums