As well as its needed effects, bromfenac ophthalmic (the active ingredient contained in Prolensa) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking bromfenac ophthalmic, check with your doctor immediately:
Some bromfenac ophthalmic side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Common (1% to 10%): Anterior chamber inflammation, foreign body sensation in eye, vitreous floaters, iritis, eye pain, ocular hypertension, photophobia, blurred visionUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Reduced visual acuity, hemorrhagic retinopathy, corneal epithelium defect, corneal erosion, corneal epithelium disorder, corneal edema, retinal exudates, eyelid bleeding, eyelid edema, eye discharge, eye pruritus, eye irritation, eye redness, conjunctival hyperemia, ocular discomfortRare (less than 0.
1%): Corneal perforation, corneal ulcer, corneal erosion, scleromalacia, corneal infiltrates, corneal disorder, corneal scar
The most frequently reported side effects were foreign body sensation in eye, anterior chamber inflammation, headache, vitreous floaters, iritis, eye pain, photophobia, blurred vision, and ocular hypertension.
Common (1% to 10%): Headache
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Face swelling
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Epistaxis, cough, nasal sinus drainage Rare (less than 0.
1%): Asthma
It is possible that some side effects of Prolensa may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Blurred vision
change in color vision
decreased vision or other changes in vision
difficulty seeing at night
eye pain
red, sore eyes
sensitivity to light
tearing
Abnormal sensation in the eye
burning or stinging of the eye
feeling of having something in the eye
headache
itching of the eyes