Common side effects of Prometrium include: abdominal cramps, dizziness, and headache.
Other side effects include: anxiety, cough, diarrhea, fatigue, musculoskeletal pain, nausea, bloating, emotional lability, and irritability.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, progesterone (the active ingredient contained in Prometrium) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking progesterone, check with your doctor immediately:
Some progesterone side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Genitourinary side effects have included breast tenderness (27%), urinary problems (11%), vaginal discharge (10%), vaginal dryness (6%), breast pain (6%), breast carcinoma (2%), breast excisional biopsy (2%), breast enlargement, leukorrhea, uterine fibroid, vaginal dryness, fungal vaginitis, vaginitis, dysuria, cystitis, and urinary tract infection
Nervous system side effects have included headache (31%), dizziness (15%), confusion, somnolence, asthenia, increased sweating, nervousness, migraine, tremor, and speech disorder.
Syncope (with and without hypotension) have been reported.
Cardiovascular side effects have included chest pain (7%), hypertension, angina pectoris, syncope, and palpitations.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included abdominal pain (20%), bloating (8%), diarrhea (8%), nausea (8%), constipation (3%), dyspepsia, dry mouth, gastroenteritis, hemorrhagic rectum, hiatus hernia, and vomiting.
The side effects reported during clinical studies evaluating the use of progesterone (the active ingredient contained in Prometrium) gel 8% have included constipation (27%), nausea (22%), and diarrhea (8%).
Musculoskeletal side effects have included joint pain (20%), musculoskeletal pain (12%), back pain (8%), arthritis, leg cramps, hypertonia, muscle disorder, and myalgia.
Psychiatric side effects have included depression (19%), anxiety, impaired concentration, insomnia, forgetfulness, and personality disorder.
Respiratory side effects have included cough (8%), bronchitis, nasal congestion, pharyngitis, pneumonitis, and sinusitis.
Dermatologic side effects have included acne, pruritus, rash, skin discoloration, seborrhea, verruca, and wound debridement during therapy.
Additional dermatologic side effects have included case reports of familial autoimmune dermatitis.
Ocular side effects have included abnormal vision.
Hepatic side effects including reversible cases of hepatitis, elevated transaminases, and cholecystectomy have been reported.
Other side effects have included viral infection (12%), hot flashes (11%), fatigue (8%), irritability (8%), worry (8%), night sweats (7%), earache, tooth disorder, anorexia, increased appetite, peripheral edema, edema, accidental injury, fever, abscess, lymphadenopathy, and herpes simplex.
Immunologic side effects have included autoimmune dermatitis during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle.
Test results using interferon gamma release in vivo and vitro tests confirmed the diagnosis.
Local side effects have included pain, irritation, and redness at the injection site.
It is possible that some side effects of Prometrium may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Chest pain
chills
cold or flu-like symptoms
cough or hoarseness
fever
problems with urination
Clear or bloody discharge from the nipple
dimpling of the breast skin
inverted nipple
lump in the breast or under the arm
persistent crusting or scaling of the nipple
redness or swelling of the breast
sore on the skin of the breast that does not heal
Abdominal or stomach pain
bloating
blurred vision
change in vaginal discharge
clay-colored stools
cleft lip or palate
confusion
constipation
darkened urine
diarrhea
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty with swallowing
difficulty with walking
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fainting
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
headache
hives
indigestion
irregular heartbeat
irritation
itching
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
lightheadedness
loss of appetite
nausea
nervousness
noisy breathing
numbness or tingling in the face, arms, or legs
pain or feeling of pressure in the pelvis
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
pounding in the ears
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rash
redness of the skin
shortness of breath
slow heartbeat
spontaneous abortion
stomach or pelvic discomfort, aching, or heaviness
sweating
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, hands, or feet
tightness in the chest
trouble speaking, thinking, or walking
unpleasant breath odor
unusual tiredness or weakness
vaginal bleeding
vomiting
vomiting of blood
wheezing
yellow eyes or skin
Breast pain or tenderness
depression
muscle or joint pain
white or brownish vaginal discharge
worry
Attack, assault, or force
blurred or loss of vision
change in walking and balance
changes in behavior
changes in patterns and rhythms of speech
choking
clumsiness or unsteadiness
confusion about identity, place, and time
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
decreased awareness or responsiveness
difficulty with moving
disturbed color perception
double vision
drowsiness
extreme dizziness or drowsiness
feeling drunk
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
feeling of unreality
hair loss or thinning of the hair
halos around lights
hearing loss
hives or welts
longer or heavier menstrual periods
loss of consciousness
muscle cramps
muscle stiffness
night blindness
normal menstrual bleeding occurring earlier, possibly lasting longer than expected
overbright appearance of lights
redness of the skin
relaxed and calm
sensation of spinning
sense of detachment from self or body
severe sleepiness
sleepiness
slurred speech
swollen tongue
thoughts of killing oneself
tunnel vision
weight changes