As well as its needed effects, dipivefrin ophthalmic (the active ingredient contained in Propine) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking dipivefrin ophthalmic, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some dipivefrin ophthalmic side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Ocular side effects have included injection (6.
5%), stinging (6%), and burning (6%).
Follicular conjunctivitis and mydriasis have been reported rarely.
Corneal vascularization or vesicles, eyelid ectropion, papillary conjunctivitis, blepharoconjunctivitis, macular edema, corneal toxicity (dendritic keratitis, punctate keratitis, or epitheliopathy), and blurred vision have also been reported.
Ocular side effects associated with ocular administration of epinephrine have included conjunctival and corneal adrenochrome deposits.
Some long-term studies have reported observations of follicular conjunctivitis in almost all patients with up to 40% classified as severe reactions.
Cardiovascular side effects have included slight increases in heart rate and diastolic blood pressure.
Cardiovascular side effects associated with ocular epinephrine have included  tachycardia, arrhythmias, and hypertension.
Most placebo-controlled studies have reported mild average increases in heart rate (3 to 4 beats/min--with or without palpitations) or diastolic blood pressure (1 to 5 mm Hg) associated with dipivefrin.
Nervous system side effects have included headache and dizziness.
Hypersensitivity reactions have included bronchospasm associated with a formulation containing bisulfite preservative.
It is possible that some side effects of Propine may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Fast or irregular heartbeat
increase in blood pressure
itching, pain, redness, or swelling of eye or eyelid (severe), or other irritation of the eye
skin rash or hives
watering of eyes (severe and continuing)
Blurred vision
burning or stinging of the eye
headache
increased sensitivity of eyes to light
large pupils