In some animal studies, cholestyramine (the active ingredient contained in Questran Light) was found to cause tumors.
It is not known whether cholestyramine causes tumors in humans.
As well as its needed effects, cholestyramine may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking cholestyramine, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following side effects occur while taking cholestyramine, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some cholestyramine side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Gastrointestinal side effects include constipation (28%), heartburn (17%), belching or bloating (11%), nausea (9%), eructation, anorexia, steatorrhea, hemorrhoids, rectal pain and irritation, diverticulitis, and bleeding from a known duodenal ulcer.
Intestinal obstruction and pancreatitis are also reported in the literature.
Gastrointestinal side effects occur in the majority of patients treated with cholestyramine.
Constipation is most common and can be severe.
Intestinal obstruction has been reported in pediatric patients.
Elderly patients are probably at risk for this as well.
In one large study, gastrointestinal side effects diminished with continued therapy.
If gastrointestinal side effects are significant, dosage reductions, even if temporary, may be beneficial.
Metabolic side effects include hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis, weight loss, and weight gain.
Cholestyramine (the active ingredient contained in Questran Light) has been reported to decrease the absorption of thyroxine (T4).
Hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis has been reported in pediatric as well as adult patients.
Onset of clinical illness ranged from days to several weeks after beginning cholestyramine therapy.
In three out of four adult cases in the literature, spironolactone was used as concomitant therapy.
Several patients had moderate underlying renal disease.
With appropriate supportive care, correction of the acidosis, and discontinuation of cholestyramine, the patients recovered.
The mechanism by which cholestyramine causes metabolic acidosis has not been completely resolved.
However, it may involve the release of chloride ions by cholestyramine (a chloride salt form) in addition to binding of bicarbonate and carbonate ions to the resin, creating a metabolic imbalance.
Patients with impaired renal function may be at increased risk due to impairment of chloride elimination.
Hematologic side effects include rare cases of elevated prothrombin time, ecchymoses, and anemia.
Hepatic side effects of cholestyramine (the active ingredient contained in Questran Light) include rare cases of abnormal liver function tests although causality is unknown.
In addition, calcification in the right upper quadrant and of the biliary tree has been reported, as has biliary colic.
Respiratory side effects include asthma, wheezing, and shortness of breath although causality is unknown.
Nervous system side effects include headache, anxiety, vertigo, dizziness, syncope, drowsiness, femoral nerve pain, and paresthesia although causality is unknown.
Renal side effects include hematuria, dysuria, burnt odor to the urine, and diuresis, as well as a case report of urethral calculi composed of uric acid.
Hypersensitivity in the form of urticaria has been reported.
Musculoskeletal side effects include osteoporosis, muscle and joint pain, muscle weakness, arthritis, and osteomalacia.
Loss of dental enamel has been reported when cholestyramine (the active ingredient contained in Questran Light) was mixed with a relatively acidic liquid (in the case-report Kool-Aid was used).
Ocular side effects include uveitis although causality is unknown.
It is possible that some side effects of Questran Light may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Black, tarry stools
stomach pain (severe) with nausea and vomiting
Constipation
Loss of weight (sudden)
Heartburn or indigestion
nausea or vomiting
stomach pain
Belching
bloating
diarrhea
dizziness
headache 