The combination of ipratropium and albuterol has been generally well tolerated.
Systemic effects have occurred with albuterol; however, due to the poor oral and mucosal absorption of ipratropium, it typically has not exhibited systemic effects when administered by oral inhalation.
Respiratory side effects have included bronchitis (up to ), upper respiratory tract infection (up to ), lung disease , cough (up to ), dyspnea (up to ), pharyngitis (up to ), nasopharyngitis (up to ), respiratory disorders , sinusitis , pneumonia (up to ), rhinitis , and voice alterations (more than ).
Dysphonia, increased sputum, pharyngolaryngeal pain, wheezing, and bronchospasm have been reported in less than  of patients.
Hoarseness, throat irritation, bronchospasm (including paradoxical bronchospasm), wheezing, exacerbation of COPD symptoms, upper respiratory tract infection, sinusitis, sore throat, nasal congestion, and pharyngeal edema have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Nervous system side effects have included headache (up to ).
Dizziness, paresthesia, tremor, taste perversion, and insomnia have been reported in less than  of patients.
Drowsiness, coordination difficulty, and taste perversion have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Other side effects have included chest pain (up to ), pain (up to ), and influenza .
Asthenia, influenza-like illness, chest discomfort, edema, and fatigue have been reported in less than  of patients.
Mucosal ulcers, irritation from aerosol, flushing, edema, back pain, aching, and asthenia have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypertension, palpitations, tachycardia, angina, and arrhythmia in less than  of patients.
Palpitations, hypotension, elevated heart rate, myocardial ischemia, decreased diastolic blood pressure, and increased systolic blood pressure have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Postmarketing experience has included a -year placebo-controlled trial, in which hospitalizations for supraventricular tachycardia and/or atrial fibrillation occurred with an incidence rate of  in COPD patients receiving ipratropium inhalation aerosol.
Hypersensitivity side effects associated with the inhalation solution have included immediate hypersensitivity reactions as demonstrated by rare cases of rash, urticaria, angioedema, pruritus, bronchospasm, anaphylaxis, and oropharyngeal edema.
Allergic-type reactions such as skin reactions including rash, pruritus, urticaria (including giant urticaria), angioedema (including that of tongue, lips, and face), laryngospasm, and anaphylactic reaction have been reported with the inhalation aerosol.
Hypersensitivity has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Ocular side effects have included eye pain (less than ), acute angle-closure glaucoma, and aggravation of narrow-angle glaucoma.
Glaucoma, precipitation or worsening of narrow-angle glaucoma, acute eye pain, blurred vision, conjunctival hyperemia, halo vision, accommodation disorder, ocular irritation, corneal edema, increased intraocular pressure, and mydriasis have been reported during postmarketing experience.
There are numerous case reports in the literature of precipitation of glaucoma with the use of ipratropium and albuterol via nebulized solution.
This is thought to occur through direct contact with the eyes, and is seen with the combination since both beta agonists and anticholinergics can increase intraocular pressure.
There is one report of glaucoma associated with the use of nebulized albuterol and ipratropium aerosol in an emergency department.
Caution is warranted when the combination is used in patients predisposed to glaucoma.
Extra care should be taken to avoid contact with the eyes.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea (greater than or equal to ).
Diarrhea, dry mouth, constipation, dyspepsia, and vomiting have been reported in less than  of patients.
Drying of secretions, gastrointestinal motility disorder, stomatitis, dry throat, heartburn, gastrointestinal distress (diarrhea, nausea, vomiting), constipation, and mouth edema have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgia, muscle spasms, and myalgia in less than  of patients.
Leg cramps  have been reported.
Muscle spasms, muscular weakness, and myalgia have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Psychiatric side effects have included nervousness (less than ).
Central nervous system stimulation and mental disorder have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Metabolic side effects have included hypokalemia (less than ).
Hypokalemia and metabolic acidosis have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus and rash in less than  of patients.
Angioedema, hyperhidrosis, alopecia, and skin reaction have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Genitourinary side effects have included urinary tract infection and dysuria in less than  of patients.
Urinary retention has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Body aches or pain
chills
cough
cough producing mucus
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
fever
headache
loss of voice
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
stuffy nose
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
blurred vision
burning while urinating burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chest pain
congestion
diarrhea
difficult, burning, or painful urination
dizziness
fainting
fast, slow, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
frequent urge to urinate
general feeling of discomfort or illness
hoarseness
increased sputum
joint pain
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
muscle aches and pains
nausea
nervousness
noisy breathing
pain
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
pounding in the ears
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
shivering
sweating
swelling
tender, swollen glands in the neck
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
trouble sleeping
trouble swallowing
voice changes
vomiting
Skin rash or hives
swelling of the face, lips, eyelids, mouth, or throat
Chest discomfort
decrease in the frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
itching skin
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
redness of the skin
welts
Acid or sour stomach
bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
belching
change in taste
diarrhea
difficulty with moving
dry mouth
heartburn
indigestion
muscle pain or stiffness
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
voice changes
Bigger, dilated, or enlarged pupils (black part of the eye)
blindness
change in near or distance vision
decreased vision
difficulty in focusing eyes
dry throat
eye pain
increased sensitivity of the eyes to light
itching, redness, tearing, or other sign of eye irritation not present before use of this medicine or becoming worse during use
lack or loss of strength
noisy breathing
redness of the white part of the eyes or inside of the eyelids
swelling of the eye
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
tearing