Common side effects of Recombivax HB include: fatigue, pain at injection site, and tenderness at injection site.
Other side effects include: dizziness, fever, headache, pruritus, vertigo, ecchymoses, erythema, induration at injection site, inflammation at injection site, and swelling at injection site.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Get emergency medical help if your child has signs of an allergic reaction:  hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of the face, lips, tongue, or throat.
Your child should not receive a booster vaccine if he or she had a life-threatening allergic reaction after the first shot.
Keep track of any and all side effects your child has after receiving this vaccine.
When the child receives a booster dose, you will need to tell the doctor if the previous shot caused any side effects.

Becoming infected with hepatitis B is much more dangerous to your child's health than receiving this vaccine.
However, like any medicine, this vaccine can cause side effects but the risk of serious side effects is extremely low.
Call your doctor at once if your child has:
high fever, sore throat, and headache with a severe blistering, peeling, and red skin rash;
fussiness, irritability, crying for an hour or longer;
unusual muscle weakness; 
changes in behavior; or
severe skin reaction--fever, sore throat, swelling in your face or tongue, burning in your eyes, skin pain followed by a red or purple skin rash that spreads (especially in the face or upper body) and causes blistering and peeling.
Common side effects include:
diarrhea, loss of appetite;
feeling weak or tired;
mild fussiness or crying;
low fever; or
runny nose.
This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects.

The most common adverse events were injection site reactions, headache, and fatigue.
Very common (10% or more): Injection site pain (33.
8%), injection site soreness (22%), injection site redness (15.
6%), injection site swelling (11.
7%)Common (1% to 10%): Injection site indurationUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Injection site ecchymosis, injection site pruritusPostmarketing reports: Injection site reaction
Very common (10% or more): Headache (23.
4%)Common (1% to 10%): Dizziness, drowsinessUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Somnolence, tingling, paresthesiaPostmarketing reports: Encephalitis, encephalopathy, migraine, multiple sclerosis, neuritis, neuropathy including hypoesthesia, Guillain-Barre syndrome and Bell's palsy, optic neuritis, paralysis, paresis, seizures, syncope, transverse myelitis, vertigo, demyelinating disease of the central nervous system, exacerbation of multiple sclerosis
Very common (10% or more): Fatigue (33.
8%)Common (1% to 10%): Fever, malaiseUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Chills, influenza-like symptoms, sweating, achiness, sensation of warmth, lightheadedness, flushing, earachePostmarketing reports: Tinnitus
Apparent hypersensitivity syndrome (serum sickness-like) of delayed onset has been reported days to weeks after vaccination, including: arthralgia/arthritis (usually transient), fever, and dermatologic reactions such as urticaria, erythema multiforme, ecchymosis, and erythema nodosum.
Postmarketing reports: Allergic reaction, anaphylactoid reaction, anaphylaxis, apparent hypersensitivity syndrome
Common (1% to 10%): Appetite lostUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Anorexia
Very common (10% or more): IrritabilityUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Agitation, insomnia
Common (1% to 10%): Pharyngitis, upper respiratory infectionUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Upper respiratory tract illnesses, rhinitis, cough, influenzaFrequency not reported: PharyngitisPostmarketing reports: Apnea, bronchospasm including asthma-like symptoms
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Arthralgia, back pain, myalgia, pain/stiffness in arm, shoulder, or neckPostmarketing reports: Arthritis, muscular weakness
Common (1% to 10%): Gastrointestinal symptomsUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Abdominal pain/cramps, constipation, diarrhea, nausea, vomitingPostmarketing reports: Dyspepsia
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): LymphadenopathyPostmarketing reports: Thrombocytopenia, increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Erythema, petechiae, pruritus, rash, sweating, urticariaPostmarketing reports: Alopecia, angioedema, eczema, erythema multiforme including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema nodosum, lichen planus, purpura
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Flushing, hypotensionPostmarketing reports: Palpitations, tachycardia, vasculitis, syncope
Very rare (less than 0.
01%): UveitisPostmarketing reports: Conjunctivitis, keratitis, visual disturbances, optic neuritis
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Dysuria
Postmarketing reports: Abnormal liver function tests
Postmarketing reports: Herpes zoster, meningitis
It is possible that some side effects of Recombivax HB may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
high fever, sore throat, and headache with a severe blistering, peeling, and red skin rash;
fussiness, irritability, crying for an hour or longer;
unusual muscle weakness; 
changes in behavior; or
severe skin reaction--fever, sore throat, swelling in your face or tongue, burning in your eyes, skin pain followed by a red or purple skin rash that spreads (especially in the face or upper body) and causes blistering and peeling.
diarrhea, loss of appetite;
feeling weak or tired;
mild fussiness or crying;
low fever; or
runny nose.