Common side effects of Recombinate include: pruritus, skin rash, and urticaria.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, antihemophilic factor (the active ingredient contained in Recombinate) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking antihemophilic factor, check with your doctor immediately:
Some antihemophilic factor side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Nervous system side effects have included headache, dizziness, somnolence, and asthenia.
Respiratory side effects have included dyspnea and rhinitis.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgia.
Local side effects have included injection site pain.
General side effects have included pyrexia and chills.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, diarrhea, and vomiting.
Dermatologic side effects have include pruritus, rash, and urticaria.
Cardiovascular side effects have included hemorrhage, hypotension, and vasodilatation.
It is possible that some side effects of Recombinate may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Fever
Changes in facial skin color
chills
fast or irregular breathing
nausea
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes
sensation of burning, warmth, heat, numbness, tightness, or tingling
skin rash, hives, or itching
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bluish color of the fingernails, lips, skin, palms, or nail beds
blurred vision
chest pain or discomfort
confusion
cough
deep or fast breathing with dizziness
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
noisy breathing
numbness of the feet, hands, and around the mouth
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
slow or irregular heartbeat
sweating
swelling of the face, throat, or tongue
unusual tiredness or weakness
Headache
Burning, stinging, or swelling at the place of injection
diarrhea
dizziness or lightheadedness
dry mouth or bad taste in the mouth
lack or loss of strength
nosebleed
redness of the face
vomiting
Change in taste
loss of taste
Abdominal or stomach pain
feeling of warmth
increased sweating
irritability
muscle or bone pain
redness of the eye
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
redness of the skin
trouble seeing