Common side effects of Remodulin include: diarrhea, infusion site reaction, jaw pain, vasodilatation, and pain at injection site.
Other side effects include: edema.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, treprostinil (the active ingredient contained in Remodulin) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking treprostinil, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking treprostinil, get emergency help immediately:
Some treprostinil side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
In general, the most common adverse effects have included infusion site pain and reactions.
Local adverse effects have included infusion site pain  and infusion site reactions  such as erythema, induration, or rash.
These effects were classified as severe in  and  of patients, respectively.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea (up to ), nausea (up to ), abdominal discomfort , and vomiting.
Nervous system side effects have included headache (up to ), dizziness , and insomnia.
Cardiovascular side effects have included vasodilatation , edema , hypotension , bradycardia, syncope, and flushing.
Postmarketing reports include angioedema.
Dermatologic reactions have included rash  and pruritus .
Postmarketing reports have included angioedema.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included pain in extremity , jaw pain , and foot pain.
Complications associated with infusion systems were related to the pump  or to the infusion set .
Side effects were reported in  patients ( treprostinil (the active ingredient contained in Remodulin) and  placebo), including nausea (due to excess drug) and dyspnea (due to return of pulmonary arterial hypertension symptoms).
The following adverse events may be attributable to the IV mode of infusion including arm swelling, paresthesias, hematoma and pain.
Using an indwelling central venous catheter to deliver chronic intravenous infusions of treprostinil is associated with the risk of blood stream infections and sepsis, which may be fatal.
Other side effects include anorexia, vomiting, infusion site infection, asthenia, flushing (up to ), and abdominal pain.
Respiratory side effects of inhaled treprostinil (the active ingredient contained in Remodulin) have included cough, throat irritation, and pharyngolaryngeal pain.
Common ( to ): Hypokalemia 
It is possible that some side effects of Remodulin may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
inhalation solutioninjection solution
Decreased urine
dry mouth
increased thirst
irregular heartbeat
muscle pain or cramps
nausea or vomiting
pain in the jaw, arms, or legs
unusual tiredness or weakness
Blurred vision
confusion
diarrhea
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
headache, severe
sweating
Abdominal or stomach discomfort
diarrhea
feeling of warmth
headache
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest