Some of the metabolic changes associated with thiazide diuretics may be significant in patients with underlying cardiac arrhythmias (hypokalemia), coronary artery disease (hypercholesterolemia), gout (hyperuricemia), or liver disease (hyponatremia and hypokalemia).
The metabolic side effects of polythiazide, as with other thiazide diuretics, include hypokalemia, hyponatremia, hypochloremia, hypercalcemia, hypercholesterolemia, and hyperuricemia.
Significant reductions in the serum potassium (decreases of  mEq/L or more) have been observed in up to  of patients who are taking moderate doses of thiazide diuretics.
This can predispose some patients to develop cardiac arrhythmias.
Hypersensitivity reactions to thiazide diuretics have been reported in less than  of patients.
While most allergic reactions present as rash with nausea and vomiting, rare cases of acute pulmonary edema, interstitial cystitis, interstitial nephritis, and anaphylaxis have been associated with some thiazide diuretics.
Dermatologic reactions to thiazides include erythema annular centrifugum, acute eczematous dermatitis, morbilliform and leukocytoclastic vasculitis.
Thiazides may induce phototoxic dermatitis.
In addition, a rare, distinct entity with clinical and laboratory features indistinguishable from those of subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus has been associated with a related drug, hydrochlorothiazide.
Renal side effects including new or worsened renal insufficiency may occur due to polythiazide-induced intravascular volume depletion.
Rare cases of interstitial nephritis have been associated with some thiazide diuretics.
Cardiac arrhythmias, including ventricular ectopy and complete AV heart block, have been associated with thiazide-induced hypokalemia.
(Potassium supplementation is not an uncommon requirement.
)
Cardiovascular side effects are generally limited to palpitations.
Orthostatic hypotension may occur and may rarely be associated with syncope, particularly in the elderly.
Endocrinologic problems associated with thiazide diuretics include glucose intolerance and a potentially deleterious effect on the lipid profile.
This may be important in some patients with or who are at risk for diabetes or coronary artery disease.
A prospective study of  patients who received oral thiazide diuretics for  years without interruption revealed an increased mean fasting blood glucose level after treatment.
Withdrawal of thiazide therapy for  months in  of the patients resulted in mean reductions of  in fasting blood glucose and  in the -hour glucose tolerance test value.
A control group was not reported.
A -year-old male with anasarca developed cyanosis and oral ulcerations associated with laboratory evidence of pancytopenia  days after beginning polythiazide (the active ingredient contained in Renese) (dose not available).
A bone marrow aspiration revealed general hypoplasia with absence of megakaryocytes and blast cells.
The child died from persistent hemorrhaging and infections despite prednisolone and antimicrobial therapy.
Hematologic side effects are rare.
Cases of immune-complex hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, and thrombocytopenia have been associated with polythiazide or related thiazide agents.
Thiazide diuretics may increase serum cholesterol and triglycerides, resulting in increased risk of cholesterol gallstone formation.
Reports of bowel strictures associated with thiazide ingestion have been reported in the 's, although these patients were on a combination hydrochlorothiazide-potassium product.
Gastrointestinal side effects are unusual.
The most common complaint is "dry mouth".
There have been rare cases of pancreatitis and acute cholecystitis associated with thiazide diuretics.
Limited data suggest an association between psychiatric depression and thiazide diuretics.
These data are uncontrolled observations and have not been substantiated.
It is possible that some side effects of Renese may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.