More frequent side effects include: exfoliation of skin, stinging of the skin, localized warm feeling, and mild erythema.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
In some animal studies, tretinoin has been shown to cause skin tumors to develop faster when the treated area is exposed to ultraviolet light (sunlight or artificial sunlight from a sunlamp).
Other studies have not shown the same result and more studies need to be done.
It is not known if tretinoin causes skin tumors to develop faster in humans.
As well as its needed effects, tretinoin topical (the active ingredient contained in Renova) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking tretinoin topical, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some tretinoin topical side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The side effects will go away after you stop using tretinoin.
On the rare chance that your skin color changes, this effect may last for several months before your skin color returns to normal.
Cream:Very common ( or more): Severe skin irritation (Up to )Frequency not reported: Mild irritation, peeling/skin exfoliation, erythema, pruritus, blistering, pain, crusting, tenderness, dry skin, burning/warmth/stinging, photosensitivity/increased sensitivity to lightPostmarketing reports: Temporary hyper/hypopigmentation, rash, skin atrophyGel:Very common ( or more): Dry skin (Up to ), peeling/scaling/flaking skin (Up to )Common ( to ): Burning sensation, erythema, pruritus, skin pain, sunburnFrequency not reported: Blistering/crusting skinPostmarketing reports: Temporary hypo/hyperpigmentation, increased susceptibility to sunlightMicrosphere Gel:Common ( to ): Skin irritation, skin burning, erythema, dermatitisFrequency not reported: Peeling, dryness, stinging, itchingPostmarketing reports: Temporary hypo/hyperpigmentation
Erythema, peeling, dryness, burning/stinging, and/or itching occurred most frequently during the first  weeks of therapy.
Most of the dermatologic side effects were mild in severity (approximately ), and approximately  were of moderate severity.
Dry, peeling, scaling, and/or flaking skin occurred most often in the gel formulation.
Cream:Frequency not reported: Reversible liver function test changes (bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, ALT, AST)
Cream:Frequency not reported: Thymol turbidity elevations, increased flocculation
Cream:Postmarketing reports: Edema/swelling of application site
Cream:Frequency not reported: Allergic contact dermatitisPostmarketing reports: Allergic reaction
It is possible that some side effects of Renova may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Burning feeling or stinging skin (severe)
lightening of skin of treated area, unexpected
peeling of skin (severe)
redness of skin (severe) 
unusual dryness of skin (severe)
Darkening of treated skin
Burning feeling, stinging, or tingling of skin (mild)lasting for a short time after first applying the medicine
chapping or slight peeling of skin (mild)
redness of skin (mild)
unusual dryness of skin (mild)
unusually warm skin (mild)