Common side effects of ReoPro include: major hemorrhage, back pain, chest pain, hemorrhage, hypotension, and nausea.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, abciximab (the active ingredient contained in ReoPro) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking abciximab, check with your doctor immediately:
Some abciximab side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
There was no significant increase in bleeding between patients who received abciximab (the active ingredient contained in ReoPro) and those who received aspirin, heparin, or placebo among the  patients from the EPIC trial who underwent emergency coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) after PTCA.
The authors concluded that surgery can be performed after treatment with abciximab with acceptable mortality and bleeding complications.
These data are supported by data from the Thrombolysis and Angioplasty in Myocardial Infarction (TAMI)  pilot study.
In the EPILOG trial, use of weight-adjusted abciximab infusion and low-dose weight-adjusted heparin, early removal of the femoral sheath, and arterial access guidelines reduced the incidence of major bleeding in patients receiving abciximab and heparin to rates similar to patients receiving placebo.
Immediate discontinuation of abciximab (and heparin) is recommended in the event of serious bleeding that cannot be controlled by compression.
The first and second most common sites of bleeding are the femoral artery access site and the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, respectively.
Great care should be exercised when placing the femoral artery introducer.
Indwelling arterial and venous lines should be in place prior to administration of abciximab, and recent puncture sites should be monitored closely.
In clinical trials, the incidence of intracranial hemorrhage in treated patients was similar to placebo, but the incidence of major bleeding events from GI, genitourinary, retroperitoneal, and other sites was higher in treated patients.
The incidence of hematologic side effects such as bleeding increases when abciximab is given following full dose thrombolytic therapy.
In a Canadian study involving  acute myocardial infarction (AMI) patients, the researchers reported a -fold increase in bleeding risk in patients who had received full dose thrombolytics followed by adjunctive abciximab (plus low dose heparin) therapy during rescue or urgent PTCA.
The patients were treated with full dose thrombolytics within the first  hours following the onset of AMI symptoms.
Abciximab was given to  patients as adjunctive therapy during rescue (PTCA within  hours of AMI) or urgent (PTCA within  hours of AMI) angioplasty.
The remaining  patients did not receive abciximab, and served as the control group.
The authors reported that the risk of intracranial or fatal bleeding events was the same for both treated and non-treated groups, however, the risk for minor bleeding was doubled for the abciximab-treated group.
Major bleeding events were increased in patients receiving abciximab within  hours of full dose thrombolytic therapy according to a study conducted between July  and March   Of the  total patients studied,   experienced major bleeding episodes.
A total of  patients required transfusions.
Intracranial bleeding occurred in   patients.
The authors concluded that major bleeding occurs in about  to  of patients when abciximab is used within  hours of full-dose thrombolytic therapy.
Risk factors for bleeding events in patients treated with glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa inhibitors undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) have been identified and include advanced age, renal dysfunction, female gender, peripheral vascular disease, lower body weight, duration of GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor infusion, baseline platelet count, lower baseline hemoglobin, diabetes, and elevated peak activated clotting time.
According to one study (CRUSADE trial) involving patients with non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTEACS) treated with a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor, women are at a greater risk of bleeding than men, primarily because of excessive dosing.
Results of another study indicate that among patients with NSTEACS undergoing a PCI, compared with men, women experienced a greater incidence of major and minor bleeding complications and required more transfusions of blood products.
Hematologic complications are the most common and potentially life-threatening side effects of abciximab.
Thrombocytopenia (less than , cells/mcL) associated with abciximab and standard dose heparin occurred at a rate of  to  ( to  had platelet counts less than , cells/mcL.
).
Thrombocytopenia (less than , cells/mcL) associated with abciximab and low-dose weight-adjusted heparin (EPILOG) occurred at a rate of  (less than  had platelet counts less than , cells/mcL).
Pseudothrombocytopenia, which is considered a benign laboratory condition that does not increase bleeding, stroke, need for transfusion or repeat revascularization, has been reported as the cause of more than one third of low platelet counts in patients undergoing coronary interventions treated with abciximab.
Compared with placebo, the incidence of pseudothrombocytopenia in four trials using abciximab was  vs , respectively.
Major bleeding, defined as either an intracranial hemorrhage or a decrease in hemoglobin greater than  g/dL, has been reported in  to  of patients receiving abciximab and standard-dose heparin.
Major bleeding was reported in  of patients receiving abciximab and low-dose heparin (EPILOG).
Minor bleeding, including spontaneous gross hematuria, spontaneous hematemesis, observed blood loss with a hemoglobin decrease of greater than  g/dL, or a decrease in hemoglobin of at least  g/dL without an identified bleeding site, has been reported in  to  of patients receiving abciximab and standard-dose heparin.
Minor bleeding was reported in  of patients receiving abciximab and low-dose heparin (EPILOG).
Excess spontaneous major organ bleeding has occurred primarily in abciximab treated patients weighing  kg or less.
In addition, patients who experienced a greater incidence of major bleeding episodes have included: patients greater than  years old; those who had a prior history of GI disease; those who had received thrombolytics; those who were administered heparin; those who received PTCA within  hours of the onset of AMI symptoms; those whose PTCA procedure was greater than  minutes in length; and those who failed PTCA.
Anemia, leukocytosis, and petechiae have been reported in , , and  of patients, respectively.
Hypersensitivity reactions (which may be anticipated whenever protein solutions such as abciximab (the active ingredient contained in ReoPro) are administered) may present as anaphylaxis, and may require epinephrine, dopamine, theophylline, antihistamine, and corticosteroid therapy.
To date, anaphylaxis has not been reported with abciximab therapy.
Abciximab can induce the formation of human anti-chimeric antibodies (HACA) and can produce allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis and thrombocytopenia.
These antibodies may diminish the potential benefit of readministration of abciximab (not recommended by manufacturer).
Human anti-chimeric antibodies to abciximab may appear at approximately  days after initiating therapy and peak at  to  weeks.
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypotension in  of patients (often related to hemorrhagic complications) and bradycardia in  of patients.
Chest pain has been reported in  of patients and peripheral edema has been reported in  of patients.
The following cardiovascular side effects have occurred at incidences less than  higher for patients who received abciximab (the active ingredient contained in ReoPro) than for patients who received placebo: ventricular tachycardia , pseudoaneurysm  , palpitation , arteriovenous fistula , incomplete AV block , nodal arrhythmia , peripheral coldness , complete AV block , embolism (limb) , and thromboembolism .
Analysis of one study (TARGET trial) indicates that patients with renal dysfunction undergoing PCI and receiving a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor (i.
e.
, tirofiban, abciximab) are at a higher risk of developing ischemic complications (-day death, myocardial infarction,urgent revascularization) than patients with normal creatinine clearance.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea and vomiting in  and  of patients, respectively and abdominal pain in  of patients.
The following GI system side effects have occurred at incidences less than  higher for patients who received abciximab (the active ingredient contained in ReoPro) than for patients who received placebo:  dyspepsia , diarrhea , ileus or gastroesophageal reflux or enlarged abdomen or dry mouth .
Nervous system side effects are unusual, but have included headache in , hyperesthesia or increased sweating in   and confusion in  of patients.
The following nervous system side effects have occurred at incidences less than  higher for patients who received abciximab (the active ingredient contained in ReoPro) than for patients who received placebo:   abnormal vision , dizziness , anxiety , abnormal thinking , agitation , hypesthesia , confusion , muscle contractions , coma , hypertonia , and diplopia .
Respiratory side effects have rarely included pulmonary hemorrhage , with fatalities reported  in  cases.
All patients presented with acute myocardial infarction and abnormal chest X-ray at baseline.
Five patients presented with a history of COPD.
The following respiratory side effects have occurred at incidences less than  higher for patients who received abciximab (the active ingredient contained in ReoPro) than for patients who received placebo:   pneumonia or rales , pleural effusions or bronchitis or bronchospasm , pleurisy or pulmonary embolism , and rhonchi .
Musculoskeletal pain, primarily back pain, has been reported in up to  of patients.
Asthenia has been report in  and myalgias in less than  of patients.
Genitourinary side effects that have occurred at incidences less than  higher for patients who received abciximab (the active ingredient contained in ReoPro) than for patients who received placebo include:   urinary retention , dysuria or abnormal renal function , frequent micturition or cystalgia or urinary incontinence or prostatitis .
Dermatologic side effects that have occurred at incidences equal to or less than   in patients who received abciximab (the active ingredient contained in ReoPro) include:  pruritus , wound or cellulitis , injection site pain or bullous eruption or inflammation or pallor .
These side effects occurred at an equal or greater frequency in patients receiving a placebo.
Endocrine side effects are unusual and have included diabetes mellitus and hyperkalemia .
Pain at the puncture site or incision pain has occurred in  and  of patients, respectively.
Drug toxicity has occurred in  of patients receiving abciximab (the active ingredient contained in ReoPro) 
Abciximab can induce the formation of human anti-chimeric antibodies (HACA).
Most patients develop IgG rather than IgE immune globulins (associated with anaphylaxis) that do not appear to interfere with abciximab (the active ingredient contained in ReoPro) binding to GP IIb/IIIa receptors.
Human anti-chimeric antibodies to abciximab may appear at approximately  days after initiating therapy and peak at  to  weeks.
Readministration of abciximab to  healthy volunteers who did not develop a human anti-chimeric antibody (HACA) response following the initial dose did not alter the pharmacokinetic disposition of abciximab or reduce its antiplatelet activity.
However, results in this group indicate that the incidence of HACA formation may be increased after readministration.
The clinical significance of a positive HACA titer remains to be determined.
It is possible that some side effects of ReoPro may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Bleeding
blurred vision; confusion; dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly; sweating; unusual tiredness or weakness
Black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in urine or stools
pinpoint red spots on skin
unusual bleeding or bruising
Chest pain or discomfort
chills
cough
eye pain
fever
general feeling of illness
headache
pale skin
rapid weight gain
shortness of breath
slow or irregular heartbeat
sneezing
sore throat
swelling of hands, ankles, feet, or lower legs
tightness in chest
tingling of hands or feet
troubled breathing
unusual tiredness
wheezing
Back pain
Acid or sour stomach
belching
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, pins and needles, or tingling feelings
changes in vision
delusions
dementia 
fear
heartburn
indigestion or stomach discomfort, upset or pain
mood or mental changes
nausea
nervousness
vomiting