Commonly reported side effects of repaglinide include: hypoglycemia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, repaglinide may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking repaglinide, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following side effects occur while taking repaglinide, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some repaglinide side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most frequently reported adverse reactions were changes in blood glucose levels; the occurrence of these reactions was dependent on individual factors such as dietary habits, dose, exercise, and stress.
Very common (10% or more): Hypoglycemia (up to 31%)
In 12 to 24 week clinical trials, hypoglycemia occurred in 31% of patients receiving this drug compared to 7% of placebo-treated patients.
In 1 year trials, hypoglycemia occurred in 16% of patients receiving this drug compared to 19% and 20% of glipizide and glyburide patients, respectively.
Cardiovascular events were evaluated in trials comparing this drug to sulfonylureas.
Serious cardiovascular events including ischemia with this drug were higher at 4% than for sulfonylurea drugs (3%).
No excess mortality was associated with this increase.
Selected cardiovascular events including hypertension, abnormal EKG, MI, arrhythmias, and palpitations were observed at 1% or less and no more frequently with this drug than with comparator drugs.
Trials of this drug in combination with NPH insulin found 6 serious events of myocardial ischemia.
Common (1% to 10%): Chest pain, angina, serious cardiovascular events including ischemiaFrequency not reported: Hypertension, abnormal EKG, MI, arrhythmias, palpitations
Common (1% to 10%): AllergyUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Allergic skin reactions such as rash, urticaria, and pruritusFrequency not reported: Anaphylactoid reactions
Anaphylactoid reactions were reported in less than 1% of patients.
Allergic skin reactions such as rash, urticaria, and pruritus have been observed.
There is no reason to suspect cross-allergenicity with sulfonylurea drugs due to the difference in chemical structure.
Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, diarrhea, constipation, vomiting, dyspepsia, tooth disorder Postmarketing reports: Pancreatitis
Very common (10% or more): Headache (up to 11%)Common (1% to 10%): Paresthesia
Common (1% to 10%): Arthralgia, back pain
Very common (10% or more): Upper respiratory infection (up to 16%)Common (1% to 10%): Sinusitis, rhinitis, bronchitis
Postmarketing experience has included reports of severe hepatic dysfunction including jaundice and hepatitis.
Frequency not reported: Elevated liver enzymesPostmarketing reports: Severe hepatic dysfunction including jaundice and hepatitis
Thrombocytopenia or leukopenia have been reported in less than 1% of patients.
Frequency not reported: Thrombocytopenia, leukopeniaPostmarketing reports: Hemolytic anemia
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Blurred visionVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Refraction disorder
Refraction disorders have been known to result due to changes in blood glucose levels.
Postmarketing reports: Alopecia, Stevens-Johnson syndrome
Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infection
It is possible that some side effects of repaglinide may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Convulsions (seizures)
unconsciousness 
Cough
fever
low blood sugar, including anxious feeling, behavior change similar to being drunk, blurred vision, cold sweats, confusion, cool pale skin, difficulty in thinking, drowsiness, excessive hunger, fast heartbeat, headache, nausea, nervousness, nightmares, restless sleep, shakiness, slurred speech, or unusual tiredness or weakness
pain in the chest
runny or stuffy nose
shortness of breath 
sinus congestion with pain
sneezing
sore throat
Bloody or cloudy urine
burning, painful, or difficult urination
chest pain
chills
frequent urge to urinate
problems with teeth
skin rash, itching, or hives
tearing of eyes
tightness in chest
trouble in breathing
vomiting
wheezing
Black, tarry stools
blood in stools 
fast or irregular heartbeat
hoarseness
lower back or side pain
pinpoint red spots on skin
unusual bleeding or bruising
Back pain
diarrhea
joint pain
Constipation
feeling of burning, numbness, tightness, tingling, warmth, or heat
indigestion 