Commonly reported side effects of rilonacept include: upper respiratory tract infection and injection site reaction.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, rilonacept may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking rilonacept, check with your doctor immediately:
Some rilonacept side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
In patients with Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS), the most common and consistently reported adverse event associated with rilonacept was injection-site reaction (ISR).
The ISRs included erythema, swelling, pruritis, mass, bruising, inflammation, pain, edema, dermatitis, discomfort, urticaria, vesicles, warmth, and hemorrhage.
Most injection-site reactions lasted for one to two days.
No ISRs were assessed as severe, and no patient discontinued study participation due to an ISR.
Local side effects including injection-site reactions (48%) have been reported.
One subject receiving rilonacept for an unapproved indication developed an infection in his olecranon bursa with Mycobacterium intracellulare.
The patient was on chronic glucocorticoid treatment.
The infection occurred after an intraarticular glucocorticoid injection into the bursa with subsequent local exposure to a suspected source of mycobacteria.
The patient recovered after the administration of the appropriate antimicrobial therapy.
A patient treated for another unapproved indication developed bronchitis/sinusitis, which resulted in hospitalization.
One patient died in an open-label study of CAPS from Streptococcus pneumoniae meningitis.
Immunologic side effects including infections (34%) have been reported.
Respiratory side effects including upper respiratory tract infection (26%), sinusitis (9%), and cough (9%) have been reported.
Nervous system side effects including hypoesthesia (9%) have been reported.
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea (4%) diarrhea (4%) and stomach discomfort (4%) have been reported.
Hematologic side effects have been reported including one case of transient neutropenia (ANC less than 1 x 109/L) after receiving a large dose (2000 mg intravenously) of rilonacept.
Patients with CAPS treated with rilonacept experienced increases in their mean total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglycerides.
The mean increases from baseline for total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglycerides were 19 mg/dL, 2 mg/dL, 10 mg/dL, and 57 mg/dL respectively after 6 weeks of open-label therapy.
The patient did not experience any infection associated with the neutropenia.
Physicians should monitor the lipid profiles of their patients (for example after 2 to 3 months) and consider lipid-lowering therapies as needed based upon cardiovascular risk factors and current guidelines.
Genitourinary side effects including urinary tract infection (4%) have been reported.
It is possible that some side effects of rilonacept may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at site
body aches or pain
chills
cough
difficulty in breathing
ear congestion
fever
headache
loss of voice
nasal congestion
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bloody or black, tarry stools
constipation
cough producing mucus
lower back or side pain
pain or tenderness around eyes and cheekbones
painful or difficult urination
severe stomach pain
shortness of breath or troubled breathing
tenderness
tightness of chest or wheezing
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
Burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
Stomach discomfort