Commonly reported side effects of rivastigmine include: abdominal pain, diarrhea, dizziness, headache, nausea, vomiting, weight loss, and anorexia.
Other side effects include: abdominal pain, anxiety, asthenia, depression, dizziness, drowsiness, dyspepsia, fatigue, headache, tremor, anorexia, diaphoresis, flatulence, and malaise.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, rivastigmine may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking rivastigmine, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking rivastigmine, get emergency help immediately:
Some rivastigmine side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Common (1% to 10%): HyperhidrosisRare (less than 0.
1%): Rash Frequency not reported: PruritusPostmarketing reports: Stevens-Johnson syndrome disseminated allergic dermatitis
Common (1% to 10%): Hypertension, bradycardiaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): HypotensionRare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): Angina pectoris Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Cardiac arrhythmia (e.
g.
, bradycardia, atrioventricular block, atrial fibrillation, tachycardia)Frequency not reported: Sick sinus syndrome
Very common (10% or more): Nausea (47%), vomiting (31%)diarrhea (19%), abdominal pain (13%)Common (1% to 10%): Dyspepsia, salivary hypersecretion, upper abdominal pain, flatulence, eructationRare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): Gastric and duodenal ulcers Very rare (less than 0.
01%): GI hemorrhage, pancreatitisFrequency not reported: Some cases of severe vomiting were associated with esophageal rupture
Common (1% to 10%): Urinary incontinenceVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Urinary tract infection
Frequency not reported: Elevated liver function tests, hepatitis
Very common (10% or more): Tremor (23%), dizziness (21%)Common (1% to 10%): Somnolence, bradykinesia, dyskinesia, cogwheel rigidity, hypokinesia, vertigo, psychomotor hyperactivity, gait disturbance, Parkinson gait, headacheUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Syncope, dystoniaRare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): Seizures
Common (1% to 10%): Insomnia, confusion, depression, anxiety, hallucination, agitation, restlessness, nightmares
Common (1% to 10%): Application site erythema, application site irritation (e.
g.
, pruritus, rash)Postmarketing reports: Application site hypersensitivity, urticaria, blister, allergic dermatitis
Very common (10% or more): Anorexia (17%)Common (1% to 10%): Decreased appetiteFrequency not reported: Dehydration
Common (1% to 10%): Asthenia, weight loss, fatigue, malaise, fall
Common (1% to 10%): Rhinitis
It is possible that some side effects of rivastigmine may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
transdermal patch extended release
Diarrhea
indigestion
loss of appetite
loss of strength
nausea and vomiting
weight loss
Fainting
Aggression
convulsions (seizures)
trembling and shaking of the hands and fingers
trouble urinating
Bloody or black, tarry stools
chest pain or discomfort
constipation
difficulty with speaking
drooling
lightheadedness, dizziness, or fainting
loss of balance control
muscle trembling, jerking, or stiffness
restlessness
severe stomach pain
shortness of breath
shuffling walk
slow or irregular heartbeat
stiffness of the limbs
trouble urinating
twisting movements of the body
uncontrolled movements, especially of the face, neck, and back
unusual tiredness
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
Chest pain or discomfort
increased sweating
increased watering of the mouth
irregular, fast, slow, or shallow breathing
lightheadedness, dizziness, or fainting
nausea (severe)
pale or blue lips, fingernails, or skin
seizures
slow or irregular heartbeat
trouble breathing
unusual tiredness
vomiting (severe)
Abdominal or stomach pain or cramping
bloated or full feeling
confusion
dizziness
headache
mental depression
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
trouble sleeping
General feeling of discomfort or illness
runny nose