Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, glycopyrrolate (the active ingredient contained in Robinul) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking glycopyrrolate, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking glycopyrrolate, get emergency help immediately:
Some glycopyrrolate side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Nervous system side effects have included headache, nervousness, drowsiness, dizziness, insomnia, and mental confusion.
The elderly appear to be more prone to the anticholinergic effects of glycopyrrolate (the active ingredient contained in Robinul) on the CNS.
Seizures have been reported from postmarketing experience.
Cardiovascular side effects have included tachycardia and palpitations.
In addition, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac arrest, hypertension, and hypotension have been reported from postmarketing experience.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included dry mouth, nausea, vomiting, constipation, and feeling bloated.
Genitourinary side effects have included urinary hesitancy, urinary retention, and impotence.
Ocular side effects have included blurred vision, increased ocular tension, cycloplegia, and dilatation of the pupil.
Endocrine side effects have included suppression of lactation.
Dermatologic side effects have included dry mucous membranes and decreased sweating.
General side effects have included weakness, hyperpyrexia, and a loss of taste.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included urticaria and other dermal manifestations.
Immunologic side effects have included anaphylaxis.
Local side effects have included pruritus, edema, erythema, and pain at the injection site.
Respiratory side effects have included nasal congestion, nasal dryness, and sinusitis.
It is possible that some side effects of Robinul may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
inhalation capsule
Body aches or pain
chills
constipation
cough
decrease in the frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
feeling of warmth
fever
headache
loss of voice
nasal congestion
painful urination
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness
Abdominal or stomach discomfort or pain
abdominal or stomach distension
chest pain
confusion
convulsions
dizziness
dry heaves
dry mouth
fainting
increase in heart rate
lightheadedness
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
rapid breathing
shortness of breath or troubled breathing
stuffy nose
sunken eyes
thirst
tightness in the chest
vomiting
wheezing
wrinkled skin
low blood pressure
muscle weakness
trouble breathing
Altered mood
anxiety
attack, assault, or force
bloated
change in taste
chapped lips
crying
dry skin
dry tongue
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
full feeling
hyperventilation
irregular heartbeats
irritability
loss of taste
moaning
nervousness
pain
paleness of the skin
passing gas
rash
restlessness
shaking
trouble with sleeping
uncontrolled eye movements