More frequently reported side effects include: diarrhea, headache, nausea, weight loss, and psychiatric signs and symptoms.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, roflumilast may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some roflumilast side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
During clinical trials, treatment was discontinued due to side effects in  of patients treated with roflumilast and  of patients treated with placebo.
The most common side effects leading to roflumilast discontinuation were diarrhea and nausea.
Serious side effects, whether considered drug-related or not by investigators, which occurred more often in patients treated with roflumilast included diarrhea, atrial fibrillation, lung cancer, prostate cancer, acute pancreatitis, and acute renal failure.
Psychiatric side effects have included increased psychiatric adverse reactions  including insomnia , anxiety , and depression .
Instances of suicidal ideation and behavior (including suicide attempt and completed suicide) have been reported.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea , nausea , and acute pancreatitis.
Abdominal pain, dyspepsia, gastritis, and vomiting have been reported in  to  of patients.
In  clinical trials, moderate weight loss ( to  of body weight) was reported in  of patients receiving roflumilast compared to  of patients who received placebo.
Severe weight loss (greater than  body weight) was reported in  of patients who received roflumilast compared to  of patients receiving placebo.
Metabolic side effects have included weight loss .
Nervous system side effects have included headache , dizziness , and tremor ( to ).
Other side effects have included decreased appetite .
Musculoskeletal side effects have included back pain  and muscle spasms ( to ).
Respiratory side effects have included influenza , rhinitis ( to ), and sinusitis ( to ).
Genitourinary side effects have included urinary tract infection ( to ).
Cardiovascular side effects have included atrial fibrillation.
Oncologic side effects have included lung cancer and prostate cancer.
Renal side effects have included acute renal failure.
Hypersensitivity side effects postmarketing have included angioedema, urticaria and rash.
It is possible that some side effects of roflumilast may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Unexplained weight loss
Chills
cough
diarrhea
discouragement
fear or nervousness
feeling sad or empty
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
irritability
joint pain
loss of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
muscle aches and pains
nausea
runny nose
shivering
sleeplessness
sore throat
sweating
thoughts of killing oneself or changes in behavior
tiredness
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Abdominal or stomach pain
back pain
bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
burning feeling in the chest or stomach
decreased appetite
difficult, burning, or painful urination
dizziness
frequent urge to urinate
indigestion
lower back or side pain
muscle spasm
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
shortness of breath or troubled breathing
sneezing
stomach upset
stuffy or runny nose
sweating
tenderness in the stomach area
tightness of the chest or wheezing
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet