Commonly reported side effects of rotigotine include: application site reaction, insomnia, nausea, and vomiting.
Other side effects include: dizziness, dyspepsia, increased blood pressure, increased heart rate, orthostatic hypotension, and orthostatic dizziness.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, rotigotine may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking rotigotine, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking rotigotine, get emergency help immediately:
Some rotigotine side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Very common ( or more): Peripheral edema (up to ), orthostatic hypotension (up to )Common ( to ): Abnormal ECG T wave, first degree AV block, hypertension, palpitationsUncommon ( to ): Atrial fibrillationRare (less than ): Supraventricular tachycardia
The incidence of significant decreases in blood pressure or orthostatic hypotension increased during periods of dose escalation and titration.
In patients taking maximum recommended doses, orthostatic hypotension occurred (compared to placebo) at  (vs ),  (vs ), and  (vs ), in those with early stage Parkinson's disease (PD), advanced-stage PD, and restless legs syndrome, respectively.
The incidence of peripheral edema was  and  for patients with early-stage PD compared with  and  for patients with advanced-stage PD receiving drug and placebo, respectively.
Very common ( or more): Nausea (up to ), vomiting (up to ), Common ( to ): Dyspepsia, constipation, diarrhea, dry mouth, Uncommon ( to ): Abdominal pain
Nausea and vomiting may occur at the beginning of therapy but these are usually mild or moderate in intensity and transient even if treatment is continued.
Very common ( or more): Somnolence (up to ), dizziness (up to ), dyskinesia (up to ), headache (up to )Common ( to ): Balance disorder, paresthesia, tremor, hypoesthesia, sleep attacksRare (less than ): Convulsion
In clinical trials,  of patients receiving maximum doses of this drug for restless legs syndrome reported sleep attacks compared with  of patients receiving placebo.
Very common ( or more): Arthralgia (up to )Common ( to ): Muscle spasmsFrequency not reported: Elevated creatine phosphokinase
Common ( to ): Sinus congestion, nasal congestion, cough, nasopharyngitis, hiccups
Common ( to ): Visual disturbancesUncommon ( to ): Blurred vision, visual impairment, photopsia
Common ( to ): WBC in urineUncommon ( to ): Erectile dysfunction
Common ( to ): Hypersensitivity including tongue edema and lip edema
Uncommon ( to ): Hepatic enzyme increases (ALT, AST, GGT)
Common ( to ): Anorexia, increased weight, decreased weightFrequency not reported: Decreased serum glucose
Frequency not reported: Elevated BUN
Common ( to ): Decreased serum ferritinFrequency not reported: Decreased hemoglobin/hematocrit
Very common ( or more): Application site reactions (up to ), hyperhidrosis (up to )Common ( to ): Erythema, pruritus, Uncommon ( to ): Contact dermatitisRare (less than ): Generalized rash
Application site reactions (ASRs) exhibited a dose-dependent relationship for all doses in patients with both Parkinson's disease and restless legs syndrome.
Reactions included localized erythema, edema, or pruritus, generally limited to the patch area; although generalized skin reactions such as allergic rash, including erythematous, macular-papular rash, or pruritus were reported at a lower incidence.
Rotation of application sites has been shown to reduce the incidence of ASRs.
When applied as instructed,  (n=) of patients experienced ASR; the majority were mild or moderate in intensity.
Discontinuation occurred in  of patients
Very common ( or more): Disturbances in initiating and maintaining sleep (up to ), hallucinations (up to )Common ( to ): Abnormal dreams, nightmare, irritability, sleep disorder, depression, impulse-control disorders Uncommon ( to ): Obsessive-compulsive disorder, disorientation, agitationRare (less than ): Aggressive behavior, binge eating, delusion, delirium
Asthenic conditions included asthenia, malaise, and fatigue.
Very common ( or more): Fatigue (up to ), asthenic conditions (up to )Common ( to ): Tinnitus, vertigo
Common ( to ): Menstrual disorder, sexual desire disorder
The most common adverse reactions experienced among patients with Parkinson's disease included nausea, vomiting, somnolence, application site reactions, dizziness, anorexia, disturbances in initiating and maintaining sleep, hyperhidrosis, visual disturbances, peripheral edema, and dyskinesia.
For patients with Restless Legs Syndrome, the most common adverse reactions included application site reactions, nausea, disturbances in initiating and maintaining sleep, somnolence, and headache.
Common ( to ): Basal cell carcinoma
It is possible that some side effects of rotigotine may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Burning, itching, redness, skin rash, swelling, or soreness at the application site
swelling of the hands, ankles, feet, or lower legs
Bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
blurred vision or other changes in vision
difficult, burning, or painful urination
dizziness
frequent urge to urinate
headache
lower back or side pain
nervousness
pounding in the ears
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
slow or fast heartbeat
Confusion
convulsions
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
nausea
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
Acid or sour stomach
belching
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
difficulty with moving
dreaming abnormal
dry mouth
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
heartburn
indigestion
loss of appetite
muscle pain or stiffness
pain in the joints
sensation of spinning
sleeplessness
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep
weight loss