Commonly reported side effects of ruxolitinib include: anemia, dizziness, equilibrium disturbance, headache, labyrinthitis, meniere's disease, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, vertigo, and orthostatic dizziness.
Other side effects include: weight gain, and flatulence.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, ruxolitinib may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking ruxolitinib, check with your doctor immediately:
Some ruxolitinib side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Very common ( or more): Bruising (up to )Common ( to ): Herpes zoster
Common ( to ): Flatulence, gastrointestinal bleeding
Very common ( or more): Urinary tract infection (up to )
Very common ( or more): Anemia (up to ), thrombocytopenia (up to ), neutropenia (up to )
Common ( to ): Tuberculosis Frequency not reported: Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy
Very common ( or more): Hypercholesterolemia (up to ), weight gain (up to )
Very common ( or more): Dizziness (up to ), headache (up to )Common ( to ): Intracranial bleeding
The most common adverse reactions were anemia, thrombocytopenia, bruising, dizziness, and headache.
Very common ( or more): Bleeding (up to )
Very common ( or more): ALT increased (up to ), AST increased (up to )
It is possible that some side effects of ruxolitinib may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Black, tarry stools
bladder pain
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
bruising
chills
cloudy urine
collection of blood under the skin
cough
deep, dark purple bruise
difficult, burning, or painful urination
fever
frequent urge to urinate
itching, pain, redness, or swelling
large, flat, blue or purplish patches in the skin
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
pus in the urine
shortness of breath
small, red or purple spots on the skin
sore throat
troubled breathing with exertion
ulcers, sores, or white spots in the mouth
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Painful blisters on the trunk of the body
Bloated or full feeling
dizziness or lightheadedness
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
headache
passing gas
sensation of spinning
weight gain