Common side effects of Sabril include: arthralgia, blurred vision, confusion, depression, diplopia, fatigue, weight gain, abnormal gait, ataxia, cough, diarrhea, drowsiness, memory impairment, tremor, irritability, and pharyngolaryngeal pain.
Other side effects include: status epilepticus, urinary tract infection, pulmonary congestion, abnormality in thinking, asthenia, depressed mood, dysmenorrhea, erectile dysfunction, eye pain, muscle twitching, paresthesia, peripheral edema, sinus headache, abnormal behavior, anemia, back pain, bronchitis, chest pain, constipation, fever, hypoesthesia, hyporeflexia, lethargy, myalgia, nervousness, nystagmus, peripheral neuropathy, sedation, sensory disturbance, toothache, upper abdominal pain, vertigo, malaise, abnormal dreams, bruise, and increased appetite.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, vigabatrin (the active ingredient contained in Sabril) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some vigabatrin side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Very common ( or more): Visual field defect ( or more of patients can be affected with bilateral concentric visual field constriction ranging in severity from mild to severe), nystagmus (up to ), blurred vision (up to ), diplopia (up to ) Common ( to ): Asthenopia, eye pain, strabismus, conjunctivitisRare ( to ): Retinal disorder (such as peripheral retinal atrophy) Very rare (less than ): Optic neuritis, optic atrophy
Common ( to ): AcneUncommon ( to ): RashRare (less than ): Angioedema, urticaria
Very common ( or more): Diarrhea (up to ), nausea (up to )Common ( to ): Vomiting, abdominal pain, upper abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsia, stomach discomfort, toothache, abdominal distention, thirst
-Visual field defects ranging from mild to severe have been reported frequently in patients receiving this drug.
Severe cases are potentially disabling.
The onset is usually after months to years of therapy.
One-third of patients receiving therapy with this drug develop visual field defects.
-Approximately  of patients in clinical studies have experienced undesirable effects during treatment.
In adults, these were mostly central nervous system related such as sedation, drowsiness, fatigue, and impaired concentration.
Excitation or agitation is frequent in children.
The incidence of these undesirable effects is generally higher at the beginning of treatment and decreases with time.
-Some patients may experience an increase in seizure frequency, including status epilepticus with this drug.
Patients with myoclonic seizures may be particularly liable to this effect.
New onset myoclonus and exacerbation of existing myoclonus may occur in rare cases.
Common ( to ): Urinary tract infection, dysmenorrhea, erectile dysfunction
Very rare (less than ): HepatitisFrequency not reported: Decreases in ALT and AST
Very common ( or more): Weight gain (up to )Common ( to ): Increased appetite
Very common ( or more): ArthralgiaCommon ( to ): Joint sprain, muscle strain, back pain, pain in extremity, myalgia, muscle twitching, muscle spasms
Very common ( or more): Headache (up to ), somnolence (up to ), dizziness (up to ), tremor (up to ), memory impairment (up to ), abnormal coordination (up to )Common ( to ): Speech disorder, sensory disturbance, paresthesia, movement disorder (including dystonia, dyskinesia, and hypertonia), either alone or in association with abnormalities in MRI, hyperreflexia, hyporeflexia, hyperesthesia, hypoesthesia, status epilepticus, dysarthria, postical state, sensory loss Uncommon ( to ): Coordination abnormal (ataxia)Rare ( to ): Encephalopathy (, sedation, stupor, confusion) Very rare (less than ): Optic neuritis, optic atrophy (see also OCULAR)Frequency not reported: Increase in seizure frequency
Very common ( or more): Fatigue (up to ), gait disturbance (up to )Common ( to ): Edema, tinnitus, vertigo, peripheral edema
Very common ( or more): Excitation (children), agitation (children)Common ( to ): Agitation, aggression, nervousness, depression, paranoid reaction, irritability, asthenia, fever, thirst, malaise, expressive language disorder, abnormal dreams, mental impairment (thought disturbance), lethargy, disturbance in attentionUncommon ( to ): Hypomania, mania, psychotic disorderRare ( to ): Suicide attempt Very rare (less than ): Hallucination
Very common ( or more): Upper respiratory tract infection (up to ) Nasopharyngitis (up to ), pharyngeal pain (up to ), cough (up to )Common ( to ): Bronchitis, pulmonary congestion, sinus headache
Common ( to ): Chest pain
Common ( to ): Anemia
Very common ( or more): Viral infection (up to ), pneumonia (up to )Common ( to ): InfluenzaUncommon ( to ): Candidiasis, ear infection, croup infectious
It is possible that some side effects of Sabril may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Blue-yellow color blindness
blurred vision
decreased vision or other vision changes
eye pain
increase in seizures
loss of memory
problems with memory
Uncontrolled rolling eye movements
Abdominal or stomach pain
abnormal coordination
agitation
burning, tingling, or prickly sensations
clumsiness
confusion
constipation
diarrhea
dizziness
double vision or seeing double
drowsiness
increased movement
joint pain
mental depression
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
trembling
tremor
trouble sitting still
unsteadiness
Aggression
headache
increased saliva
muscle weakness
nausea
poor concentration
speech disorder
thinking abnormal
trouble sleeping
vomiting
weight gain