Common side effects of Saphris include: akathisia, drowsiness, extrapyramidal reaction, headache, and dizziness.
Other side effects include: gastric hypersecretory conditions, hypoesthesia, sialorrhea, and weight gain.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, asenapine (the active ingredient contained in Saphris) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking asenapine, check with your doctor immediately:
Some asenapine side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most commonly reported adverse reactions in adults included akathisia, dizziness, extra pyramidal symptoms other than akathisia, oral hypoesthesia, somnolence, and increased weight.
The most commonly reported adverse reactions in pediatric patients included somnolence, dizziness, dysgeusia, oral paresthesia, nausea, increased appetite, fatigue, and increased weight.
In a dedicated QT study in patients with schizophrenia, doses of 5, 10, 15, and 20 mg twice a day were compared with placebo.
QTc interval increases ranged from 2 to 5 msec.
No patients had QTc increases of 60 msec or greater, nor did any patient experience a QTc of 500 msec or greater.
Orthostatic hypotension was reported in 4.
1% of elderly subjects compared with 0.
3% in the combined study populations.
Common (1% to 10%): Hypertension, edemaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Syncope, sinus bradycardia, bundle branch block, QT prolongation on ECG, sinus tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, hypotensionRare (less than 0.
1%): Tachycardia
While all atypical antipsychotics have been associated with metabolic changes including hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and weight gain, the degree of metabolic change differs for each agent.
In clinical trials with this drug, changes from baseline in fasting glucose ranged from -0.
6 to 3.
8 mg/dL in adults and -0.
45 to 1.
43 mg/dL in pediatric patients treated with this drug for 3 to 6 weeks compared with -0.
2 and -2.
24 mg/dL in adults and pediatric patients receiving placebo, respectively.
In a 52-week double-blind, comparator-controlled trial in primarily schizophrenic patients, the mean increase in fasting glucose from baseline was 2.
4 mg/dL.
An increase of 7% or more in body weight occurred in 8% to 12% of adults and 4.
4% to 4.
8% of pediatric patients treated with this drug for 3 weeks compared with 1.
1% and 1.
6%, respectively in adults and pediatric patients receiving placebo.
In a 52-week double-blind, comparator-controlled trial in primarily schizophrenic patients, the mean increase in weight from baseline was 0.
9 kg.
Common (1% to 10%): Weight increased, increased appetiteUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Hyponatremia, hyperglycemia
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): AnemiaRare (less than 0.
1%): Neutropenia, thrombocytopenia
Common (1% to 10%): DysmenorrheaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Sexual dysfunction, amenorrhea Rare (less than 0.
1%): Gynecomastia, galactorrhea Frequency not reported: Hyperprolactinemia
Frequency not reported: Hypersensitivity to include anaphylaxis, angioedema, hypotension, tachycardia, swollen tongue, dyspnea, wheezing, and rash
Common (1% to 10%): Insomnia, anxiety, agitation, depression, irritability, suicidal ideation, anger
Transient elevations in serum transaminases (primarily ALT) in the short-term schizophrenia and bipolar mania trials were more common in treated patients but mean changes were not clinically relevant.
In short-term, placebo-controlled schizophrenia trials, the mean increase in transaminase levels for asenapine (the active ingredient contained in Saphris) treated patients was 1.
6 units/L compared to a decrease of 0.
4 units/L for placebo treated patients.
The proportion of patients with transaminase elevations three or more times the ULN (at the endpoint) was 0.
9% for asenapine treated patients versus 1.
3% for placebo treated patients.
In short-term, placebo-controlled bipolar mania trials, the mean increase in transaminase levels for asenapine treated patients was 8.
9 units/L compared to a decrease of 4.
9 units/L in placebo treated patients.
The proportion of patients with transaminase elevations three or more times the ULN (at the endpoint) was 2.
5% for asenapine treated patients versus 0.
6% for placebo treated patients.
No cases of more severe liver injury were seen.
In a 52 week, double-blind, comparator controlled trial of patients with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder, the mean increase from baseline of ALT was 1.
7 units/L.
Common (1% to 10%): Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) increased
Common (1% to 10%): Muscle rigidity, arthralgia, extremity painRare (less than 0.
1%): Rhabdomyolysis
Very common (10% or greater): Somnolence (pediatric patients; up to 53%) Common (1% to 10%): Dizziness, somnolence (adults), extrapyramidal disorder, akathisia, dyskinesia, dystonia, parkinsonism, sedation, dysgeusia, tremor, headache, dysgeusia, akathisia Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Seizure, dysarthria, Rare (less than 0.
1%): Neuroleptic malignant syndromeFrequency not reported: Restless leg syndrome
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Accommodation disorder
Common (1% to 10%): Fatigue
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Epistaxis, asthma, rhinorrhea, sinus congestion, nasal drynessRare (less than 0.
1%): Pulmonary embolismPostmarketing: Choking
Very common (10% or greater): Oral paraesthesia (pediatrics, up to 30%) Common (1% to 10%): Constipation, dry mouth, oral hypoesthesia (adults), salivary hypersecretion, stomach discomfort, vomiting, toothache, dyspepsia, diarrhea, nausea, abdominal painUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Dysphagia, swollen tongue, glossodyniaPostmarketing reports: Oral ulcers, blisters, peeling/sloughing, and inflammation at the application site, nausea
Application site reactions that include oral ulcers, blisters, peeling/sloughing, and inflammation primarily in the sublingual area have led to discontinuation of therapy in many cases.
Oral hypoesthesia and/or oral paraesthesia may occur directly after administration and usually resolve in 1 hour.
Common (1% to 10%): Rash
It is possible that some side effects of Saphris may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abnormal or decreased touch sensation
inability to move the eyes
inability to sit still
increase in body movements
increased blinking or spasms of the eyelid
lip smacking or puckering
need to keep moving
puffing of the cheeks
rapid or worm-like movements of the tongue
restlessness
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
sticking out of tongue
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
trouble with breathing, speaking, or swallowing
twitching, twisting, uncontrolled repetitive movements of the tongue, lips, face, arms, or legs
uncontrolled chewing movements
uncontrolled twisting movements of the neck, trunk, arms, or legs
unusual facial expressions
weakness of the arms and legs
Blurred vision
dizziness
headache
nervousness
pounding in the ears
slow or fast heartbeat
Black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
changes in patterns and rhythms of speech
coma
confusion
convulsions
decreased urine output
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
increased thirst
muscle pain or cramps
nausea or vomiting
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
slurred speech
swelling of the face, ankles, or hands
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Constipation
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
trouble sleeping
unusually deep sleep
unusually long duration of sleep
Acid or sour stomach
belching
depression
difficulty with moving
dry mouth
fear or nervousness
heartburn
increased appetite
increased watering of the mouth
increased weight
indigestion
irritability
muscle pain or stiffness
pain in the arms or legs
pain in the joints
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
toothache