As well as its needed effects, edoxaban (the active ingredient contained in Savaysa) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some edoxaban side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
During nonvalvular atrial fibrillation treatment, the most common adverse reactions were bleeding and anemia.
During deep venous thromboembolism and pulmonary embolism treatment, the most common adverse reactions were bleeding, rash, abnormal liver function tests, and anemia.
Very common ( or more): Any bleeding , clinically-relevant non-major bleeding (up to )Common ( to ): Major bleeding, anemia-related adverse events, non-fatal non-critical organ bleeding, clinically relevant bleeding, anemiaUncommon ( to ): Fatal bleeding, non-fatal critical organ bleeding, a  g/dL or greater decrease in hemoglobin, blood loss requiring transfusion of  or more units of RBCRare (less than ): Fatal non-intracranial bleeding
Major bleeding included intracranial hemorrhage (ICH), gastrointestinal hemorrhage, and fatal bleeds.
A major bleeding event was defined as clinically overt bleeding that met one of the following criteria: fatal bleeding, symptomatic bleeding in a critical site (  spine, eye), drop in hemoglobin of at least  g/dL, or a drop in hematocrit of at least .
A clinically relevant non-major bleed was defined as overt bleeding that required medical intervention.
Major GI bleeds included both upper and lower GI bleeds.
A GUSTO severe GI bleed is defined as a severe or life-threatening bleed that causes hemodynamic compromise and requires intervention.
Common ( to ): Major gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding, upper GI bleeding, lower GI bleeding (including anorectal bleeding), oral and pharyngeal bleedingUncommon ( to ): GUSTO severe GI bleedingRare (less than ): Fatal GI bleed
ICH included hemorrhagic stroke, subarachnoid hemorrhage, epidural/subdural hemorrhage, and ischemic stroke with major hemorrhage.
Uncommon ( to ): Any intracranial hemorrhage (ICH), hemorrhagic stroke, ICH other than hemorrhagic stroke, fatal ICH
Common ( to ): Cutaneous soft tissue bleeding, rash
Common ( to ): Vaginal bleeding, macroscopic hematuria, urethral bleeding
Common ( to ): Abnormal liver function tests
Common ( to ): Puncture site bleeding
Common ( to ): EpistaxisUncommon ( to ): Interstitial lung disease (ILD)
Most cases of ILD were confounded by concurrent amiodarone, which is known to cause ILD, or infectious pneumonia.
Overall,  patients out of  died of ILD during the course of the study.
It is possible that some side effects of Savaysa may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Bloody nose
heavy non-menstrual vaginal bleeding
pale skin
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bloody or black, tarry stools
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
Confusion
cough
difficulty with speaking
double vision
fever
headache, sudden, severe
inability to move the arms, legs, or facial muscles
inability to speak
nausea and vomiting
slow speech
Back pain
bowel or bladder dysfunction
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
leg weakness
paralysis
Rash