As well as its needed effects, scopolamine (the active ingredient contained in Scopace) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking scopolamine, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking scopolamine, get emergency help immediately:
Cardiovascular side effects are limited when scopolamine (the active ingredient contained in Scopace) is delivered transdermally.
Occasionally, there may be some clinically insignificant reductions in heart rate or blood pressure.
Dermatologic side effects have included rash, dryness of the skin, and erythema.
Dermatitis may occur at the site of application, in some cases due to the scopolamine (the active ingredient contained in Scopace) itself.
Gastrointestinal side effects reported have included dry mouth, which occurred in approximately two-thirds of the patients using the transdermal patch.
Most adverse effects of scopolamine (the active ingredient contained in Scopace) are extensions of its pharmacologic activity and are anticholinergic in nature.
Scopolamine delivered transdermally is associated with considerably less side effects than when administered by other routes.
Genitourinary side effects have included retention.
Urinary retention has been reported infrequently with the transdermal patch.
Nervous system side effects including drowsiness occurs quite frequently and is reported by about  of patients administered the scopolamine (the active ingredient contained in Scopace) transdermal patch.
Other nervous system side effects are sporadic, including dizziness, restlessness, insomnia, disorientation, memory disturbances, hallucinations, paranoia, and confusion.
Most reports of scopolamine-induced psychosis and delirium have involved the elderly, although some behavioral and mental irregularities may also be seen in young children.
Concomitant use of antihistamines and other anticholinergics may be predisposing factors.
Recurrent migraine attacks have been described in one individual following an apparent scopolamine intoxication characterized by weakness, blurred vision, drowsiness, confusion, motor incoordination, and a stuporous state lasting  hours.
Recurrent classic migraine attacks developed in a -year-old naval crew member who had been treated continuously with transdermal scopolamine for  months.
The initial attack occurred within  hours of diagnosis of scopolamine intoxication.
The patient had no self or family history of migraines.
The attacks, presenting with prodrome and aura, followed by severe throbbing left headache, nausea, photophobia and sonophobia lasting  to  hours, recurred every  to  days for more than a year.
Common triggers of migraines and other precipitating factors could not be identified in this case.
Ocular side effects have included transient mydriasis and cycloplegia, resulting in blurred vision.
Symptoms generally resolve within  days following removal of the patch but may take longer depending on the cumulative dose received.
Unilateral dilation of the pupil and anisocoria have been reported, suggesting that some ocular events may be due to inadvertent contamination of the eye when there is failure to wash the hands after drug application.
Narrow angle glaucoma resulting from bilateral mydriasis has been reported rarely but, in one case, required surgery.
Esotropia has also occurred in a pediatric patient with neurodevelopmental disabilities but resolved several days after removal of the patch.
Withdrawal symptoms may seldomly develop within  or  days following removal of the patch, usually in patients who have used it for more than  days.
These symptoms are consistent with rebound cholinesterase activity and include dizziness, nausea, vomiting, paresthesias of the hands and feet, dysphoria, and hypotension.
It is possible that some side effects of Scopace may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Blurred vision
chest pain or discomfort
difficulty with urinating
dilation of the pupils
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly
eye pain
flushing or redness of the skin
mood or mental changes
muscle weakness
nausea or vomiting
rash
redness of the white part of the eyes
restlessness
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
shortness of breath
slow or irregular heartbeat
sweating
unusual tiredness
unusually warm skin
Anxiety
blurred or loss of vision
change in consciousness
decrease in frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
disturbed color perception
double vision
dry mouth
dry, flushed skin
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
halos around lights
headache
hyperventilation
irritability
loss of consciousness
nervousness
night blindness
overbright appearance of lights
painful urination
pounding in the ears
seizures
shaking
sleepiness
trouble with sleeping
tunnel vision
unusual drowsiness, dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness