Commonly reported side effects of sebelipase alfa include: diarrhea, fever, vomiting, hypersensitivity reaction, and urticaria.
Other side effects include: nausea.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, sebelipase alfa may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking sebelipase alfa, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some sebelipase alfa side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Common (1% to 10%): Tachycardia, hyperemia, hypotensionRapidly Progressive LAL Deficiency:-Very common (10% or more): Tachycardia, hypertension, pallor, increased blood pressure, increased heart rate
Common (1% to 10%): Urticaria, rash, pruritus, eczema, papular rash, pruritic rashRapidly Progressive LAL Deficiency:-Very common (10% or more): Urticaria (33%), rash, eczema, pruritus, maculopapular rash
Constipation and nausea were each reported in 8% of pediatric and adult patients receiving this drug, compared to 3% and 7% of those receiving placebo, respectively.
Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, diarrhea, abdominal pain, abdominal distention, constipationRapidly Progressive LAL Deficiency:-Very common (10% or more): Diarrhea (67%), vomiting (67%), gastroesophageal reflux disease, retching
In clinical trials, 106 patients (total) were treated with this drug.
In 66 pediatric and adult patients with lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) deficiency, 36 patients received this drug (1 mg/kg IV every other week) while 30 patients received placebo during the double-blind period of the trial; age at first dose was 4 to 58 years.
Infants with evidence of rapidly progressive LAL deficiency before 6 months of age (n=9) received up to 3 mg/kg IV once a week; age at first dose was 1 to 6 months.
The most serious side effects reported in clinical studies were signs/symptoms consistent with anaphylaxis (including chest discomfort, conjunctival injection, dyspnea, generalized and itchy rash, hyperemia, mild eyelid edema, rhinorrhea, severe respiratory distress, tachycardia, tachypnea, urticaria).
Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infection, menorrhagia
Rapidly Progressive LAL Deficiency:-Very common (10% or more): Anemia (44%)
Very common (10% or more): Hypersensitivity reactionCommon (1% to 10%): Anaphylactic reactionRapidly Progressive LAL Deficiency:-Very common (10% or more): Hypersensitivity reaction, anaphylaxis
In clinical trials, signs/symptoms of anaphylaxis were reported in 3 of 106 patients treated with this drug (including 2 of 92 children and adults and 1 of 14 infants).
Anaphylaxis was reported during infusion up to 1 year after the start of therapy.
In clinical trials, signs/symptoms of hypersensitivity reaction were reported in 21 of 106 patients treated with this drug (including 12 of 92 children and adults and 9 of 14 infants); such signs/symptoms occurred in at least 2 patients and included abdominal pain, agitation, chills, diarrhea, eczema, hypertension, irritability, laryngeal edema, nausea, edema, pallor, pruritus, pyrexia/increased body temperature, rash, tachycardia, urticaria, and vomiting.
Most reactions occurred during or within 4 hours of completing the infusion.
During a double-blind study, 5 out of 35 pediatric and adult patients treated with this drug developed ADA.
During the open-label extension, 2 patients developed in vitro neutralizing antibodies.
ADA developed in 4 of 7 patients with rapidly progressive LAL deficiency presenting with the first 6 months of life; 2 of the 4 ADA-positive patients were positive for neutralizing antibodies.
Hypersensitivity reactions were reported in all 4 ADA-positive patients compared to 1 of the 3 ADA-negative patients.
Decreased growth velocity (in a setting of neutralizing antibodies to this drug) was reported in 1 patient.
There was no clear association between the development of ADA and decreased efficacy of this drug.
Very common (10% or more): Antidrug antibody developmentCommon (1% to 10%): Neutralizing antibody developmentRapidly Progressive LAL Deficiency:-Very common (10% or more): Development of antidrug antibodies (ADA), positive for neutralizing antibodies
Very common (10% or more): Increased low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, increased triglyceridesCommon (1% to 10%): Transient hypercholesterolemia, transient hypertriglyceridemiaRapidly Progressive LAL Deficiency:-Very common (10% or more): Decreased oxygen saturation
Increases in LDL cholesterol (LDL-c) and triglycerides above pretreatment levels were observed in 29 of 36 and 21 of 36 patients, respectively, at 2 and 4 weeks following initiation of this drug.
The maximum mean percentage increase for LDL-c at week 2 was 18% and 5% for triglycerides at week 4.
These increases generally improved within an additional 8 weeks of therapy.
Very common (10% or more): Headache (28%)Common (1% to 10%): DizzinessRapidly Progressive LAL Deficiency:-Very common (10% or more): Hypotonia
Common (1% to 10%): Eyelid edemaRapidly Progressive LAL Deficiency:-Very common (10% or more): Eyelid edema
Very common (10% or more): Fever/pyrexia (25%)Common (1% to 10%): Chills, chest discomfort, edema, fatigue, increased body temperature, infusion site induration, infusion related reaction, astheniaRapidly Progressive LAL Deficiency:-Very common (10% or more): Fever/pyrexia (56%), increased body temperature, decreased oxygen saturation, chills, edema, hyperthermia, irritability, decreased growth velocity
Common (1% to 10%): Anxiety, insomniaRapidly Progressive LAL Deficiency:-Very common (10% or more): Agitation
Very common (10% or more): Oropharyngeal pain (17%), nasopharyngitis (11%)Common (1% to 10%): Laryngeal edema, dyspneaRapidly Progressive LAL Deficiency:-Very common (10% or more): Rhinitis (56%), Nasopharyngitis (33%), Cough (33%), respiratory distress, wheezing, nasal congestion, sneezing, increased respiratory rate
It is possible that some side effects of sebelipase alfa may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal or stomach pain
anxiety or agitation
blurred vision
chills
coughing
diarrhea
difficulty with breathing or swallowing
dizziness
dry mouth
fever
headache
hives, itching, or rash
hoarseness
hyperventilation
irregular heartbeats
irritability
nausea
nervousness
paleness of the skin
pounding in the ears
reddening of the skin, especially around the ears
restlessness
shaking
skin rash, encrusted, scaly, and oozing
slow or fast heartbeat
slow or irregular breathing
swelling of the eyes, face, inside of the nose, or throat
tightness in the chest
vomiting
trouble sleeping
unusual tiredness or weakness
Chest discomfort
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rapid shallow breathing
redness of the skin
redness of the white part of the eyes
swelling of the eyelids
Difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
muscle aches
pale skin
sneezing
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising