Common side effects of Semprex-D include: dizziness and drowsiness.
Other side effects include: insomnia, sedation, and xerostomia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, acrivastine / pseudoephedrine may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking acrivastine / pseudoephedrine, get emergency help immediately:
Some acrivastine / pseudoephedrine side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Although acrivastine has little effect on the central nervous system, a reduction in motor skills when taken with alcohol has been seen in at least one study.
Patients should be warned not to take acrivastine with alcohol or other sedating drugs.
Nervous system side effects of pseudoephedrine have included  stimulation, resulting in tremor, anxiety, and nervousness.
Insomnia has been reported in up to 30% of pseudoephedrine-treated patients.
Headache has also been reported.
Nervous system side effects of acrivastine have included uncommon reports of sedation especially when given in combination with pseudoephedrine.
Acrivastine has caused more sedation than placebo, but less than other antihistamines with sedating qualities.
Acrivastine has also rarely caused headache, somnolence, and dizziness.
Cardiovascular side effects of pseudoephedrine have included significant increases in heart rate.
Hypertension and arrhythmias may be problematic in susceptible patients.
Pseudoephedrine causes vasoconstriction which generally does not produce hypertension, but may be problematic for patients with preexisting hypertension.
Arrhythmias may be produced in predisposed patients.
Rarely, pseudoephedrine has been reported to cause coronary artery spasm and chest pain.
Gastrointestinal side effects of pseudoephedrine have included anorexia and gastric irritation in approximately 5% of patients.
Dry mouth, nose, or throat has occurred in up to 15% of patients.
Gastrointestinal side effects of acrivastine have included dry mouth, and rarely, nausea.
Hypersensitivity side effects of pseudoephedrine have included reports of fixed drug eruptions.
Hypersensitivity side effects of acrivastine have included rare reports of reactions.
It is possible that some side effects of Semprex-D may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Blurred vision
chest pain or discomfort
cold, clammy, or pale skin
confusion
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
irregular heartbeats
seizures
shortness of breath
slow heart rate
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness
Dry mouth
headache
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
Acid or sour stomach
belching
body aches or pain
congestion
cough
dryness or soreness of the throat
fever
heartburn
hoarseness
indigestion
lack or loss of strength
nausea
nervousness
runny nose
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
tender, swollen glands in the neck
trouble sleeping
trouble swallowing
voice changes