Common side effects of Seroquel include: asthenia, constipation, dizziness, drowsiness, headache, increased serum cholesterol, increased serum triglycerides, increased thyroid stimulating hormone level, and xerostomia.
Other side effects include: abdominal pain, dyspepsia, increased serum alanine aminotransferase, orthostatic hypotension, pharyngitis, weight gain, and tachycardia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, quetiapine (the active ingredient contained in Seroquel) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some quetiapine side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most common adverse reactions reported in adults have included somnolence, dry mouth, dizziness, constipation, asthenia, abdominal pain, postural hypotension, pharyngitis, weight gain, lethargy, increased ALT, and dyspepsia.
In children and adolescents, the most common adverse reactions reported have included somnolence, dizziness, fatigue, increased appetite, nausea, vomiting, dry mouth, tachycardia, and increased weight.
Very common ( or more): Discontinuation syndrome , agitation (up to )Common ( to ): Anxiety, depression, irritability, hypersomnia, abnormal dreams, aggression, suicidal ideation and behaviorUncommon ( to ): Abnormal dreams, abnormal thinking, amnesia, psychosis, hallucinations, manic reaction, depersonalization, catatonic reactionRare ( to ): Delirium, emotional lability, euphoria, somnambulismFrequency not reported: Suicides, nightmares, drug withdrawal syndrome neonate, withdrawal symptoms
Somnolence usually occurred during the first  weeks and resolved with continued therapy.
Very common ( or more): Somnolence (up to ), dizziness (up to ), headache  Common ( to ): Hypertonia, incoordination, tremor, speech disorder, ataxia, lethargy, paresthesia, extrapyramidal disorder, balance disorder, hypoesthesia, restless leg syndrome, hypersomnia, tremorUncommon ( to ): Seizures, akathisia, dyskinesia, tardive dyskinesia, involuntary movements, hyperkinesia, abnormal gait, myoclonus, bruxism, hemiplegia, taste perversionRare (less than ): Neuroleptic malignant syndrome, aphasia, buccoglossal syndrome, choreoathetosis, neuralgia, subdural hematomaPostmarketing reports: Retrograde amnesia
Very rare (less than ): Anaphylactic reactionsFrequency not reported: Hypersensitivity
Logistic regression analysis has shown a positive dose response for dyspepsia and abdominal pain.
Very common ( or more): Dry mouth (up to ), Common ( to ): Constipation, dyspepsia, vomiting, abdominal pain, gastroenteritis, gastroesophageal reflux disease, dysphagiaUncommon ( to ): Increased salivation, gingivitis, flatulence, hemorrhoids, stomatitis, mouth ulceration, tongue edemaRare ( to ): Glossitis, hematemesis, intestinal obstruction, melenaFrequency not reported: Pancreatitis
Collective data gathered from  placebo-controlled clinical studies (n=) involving the use of atypical antipsychotic agents, including quetiapine (the active ingredient contained in Seroquel)  for the treatment of behavioral disorders in the elderly patient with dementia showed a risk of death  to  times greater in the drug treated patient than in the placebo treated patient.
The average length of duration for the trials was  weeks with the cause of death in the majority of cases, though not all, reported as either cardiovascular (, heart failure, sudden death) or infectious (, pneumonia) in nature.
Similar results (i.
e.
, increased risk of mortality with atypical antipsychotics) were reported in another meta-analysis involving elderly dementia patients that consisted of  randomized, placebo-controlled trials (n=) of  to  weeks in duration.
Quetiapine is not approved by the FDA for use in the treatment of behavioral disorders in elderly patients with dementia.
An increased risk of mortality, possibly due to heart failure or sudden death, has been reported with the use of atypical antipsychotic agents in the treatment of behavioral disorders in the elderly patient with dementia.
The results of a large retrospective cohort study appear to indicate that atypical antipsychotic agents (i.
e.
, risperidone, olanzapine, clozapine, quetiapine) increase the risk of venous thromboembolism in elderly patients; however, these events seem to be rare.
Blood pressure elevations described as systolic elevations of  mmHg or greater and diastolic elevations of  mmHg or greater were observed in  and  of children and adolescents, respectively.
One child with a history of hypertension experienced a hypertensive crisis.
QT intervals have not been systematically evaluated.
During clinical trials, persistent increases in QT intervals were not identified; however there have been postmarketing reports of QT prolongation in patients who overdosed on this drug, in patients with concomitant illness, and in patients taking drugs that are known to cause electrolyte imbalance or QT interval prolongation.
Very common ( or more): Systolic  and diastolic  blood pressure elevations in pediatric patientsCommon ( to ): Syncope, tachycardia, postural hypotension, peripheral edema, hypotension, hypertension, palpitationsUncommon ( to ): Bundle branch block Rare ( to ): Angina pectoris, atrial fibrillation, AV bloc first degree, congestive heart failure, ST elevated, T wave flattening, ST abnormality, increased QRS duration, venous thromboembolism Very rare (less than ): Hypertensive crisis Frequency not reported: Cardiomyopathy, myocarditis, bradycardia, peripheral edemaPostmarketing reports: QT prolongation
Common ( to ): Shifts in thyroid hormones and TSH, hyperprolactinemia, altered hormone levels, hypothyroidism Uncommon ( to ): HypothyroidismRare ( to ): Gynecomastia, hyperthyroidismFrequency not reported: PriapismPostmarketing reports: Syndrome of inappropriate hormone secretion (SIADH)
In adults, dose-related decreases in thyroid hormone levels have been observed.
It appears that maximal reductions in total and free thyroxine (T) occur in the first  weeks of treatment and are maintained without adaptation or progression during chronic therapy.
Upon therapy discontinuation, these effects mostly return to baseline values.
The mechanism by which this drug affects the thyroid axis is unclear.
Atypical antipsychotic drugs have been associated with metabolic changes that include hyperglycemia/diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, and weight gain.
While these effects have been shown as a class effect, each agent has its own profile.
Hyperglycemia: Adults: In controlled clinical trials of  weeks or less,  of patients with normal (less than  mg/dL) fasting plasma glucose (FPG) had at least  FPG reading of  mg/dL or greater (vs.
placebo ) during treatment.
For patients with baseline borderline to high FPG ( mg/dL or higher),  had at least  FPG reading of  mg/dL or greater (vs.
placebo, ).
In  longer-term trials, the mean change in blood glucose from baseline in patients treated with quetiapine (the active ingredient contained in Seroquel) (mean exposure  days; n=) was  mg/dL (vs.
placebo - mg/dL).
Among patients with major depressive disorder receiving the extended-release formulation of this drug, a FBG greater than  mg/dL occurred in , , and  of those receiving  mg,  mg, or placebo.
Pediatrics: In a study of patients  to  years old with bipolar mania, the mean change in fasting glucose was  mg/dL (n=).
No patients with a baseline fasting glucose level lower than  mg/dL had a treatment-emergent blood glucose level greater than  mg/dL.
Dyslipidemia: Across indications, adult patients who experienced shifts in total cholesterol, triglycerides, LDL-cholesterol, and HDL-cholesterol from baseline to clinically significant levels occurred in up to , , , and  of patients receiving this drug compared with up to , , , and  receiving placebo, respectively.
For pediatric patients, the shifts were up to , , , and  compared to up to , , , and  for this drug and placebo, respectively.
Weight gain: Logistic regression analysis has shown a positive dose response for weight gain.
Five to  of adult patients experienced a weight gain of  or greater (vs.
up to  in placebo).
Among children and adolescents, a weight gain of  or greater occurred in  to  of patients receiving this drug compared with up to  in placebo patients.
Mean change in body weight was  to  kg in  to  week trials and  kg in  week trials.
These results were not adjusted for normal growth.
Very common ( or more): Hyperglycemia, increases in serum triglycerides, hyperlipidemia,Common ( to ): Weight gain, increased appetite, thirstUncommon ( to ): Weight loss, alkaline phosphatase increased, hyperglycemia, hypoglycemiaRare ( to ): Glycosuria, gout, hypokalemia, water intoxication, metabolic syndromePostmarketing reports: Hyponatremia
Common ( to ): Rash, sweating, acneUncommon ( to ): Photosensitivity reaction, pruritus, eczema, contact dermatitis, maculopapular rash, seborrhea, skin ulcer, ecchymosisRare ( to ): Exfoliative dermatitis, psoriasis, skin discoloration Frequency not reported: Erythema multiformePostmarketing reports: Steven-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS)
Common ( to ): Pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis, nasal congestion, cough, sinus congestion, epistaxis, upper respiratory tract infectionUncommon ( to ): Pneumonia, asthmaRare ( to ): Hiccup, hyperventilationFrequency not reported: Dyspnea
Common ( to ): Pain, asthenia, fever, balance disorder, Frequency not reported: Hypothermia, vertigo
Very common ( or more): Decreased hemoglobinCommon ( to ): Decreased neutrophil count, leucopeniaUncommon ( to ): Leukocytosis, anemia, eosinophilia, lymphadenopathy, decreased platelets Rare ( to ): AgranulocytosisFrequency not reported: Leukopenia/neutropenia, eosinophilia
Common ( to ): Amblyopia, blurred visionUncommon ( to ): Conjunctivitis, abnormal vision, dry eyes, blepharitis, eye painRare ( to ): GlaucomaFrequency not reported: Lens changes
Common ( to ): Urinary tract infectionUncommon ( to ): Urinary retention, moniliasis, dysmenorrhea, vaginitis, urinary incontinence, metrorrhagia, dysuria, abnormal ejaculation, Rare ( to ): Nocturia, polyuriaFrequency not reported: GalactorrheaPostmarketing reports: Nocturnal enuresis
Common ( to ): Back pain, twitching, arthralgia, dysarthria, extremity pain, muscle rigidity, musculoskeletal stiffnessUncommon ( to ): Pathological fracture, myasthenia, leg cramps, bone painFrequency not reported: Elevations in serum creatine phosphokinase (not associated with NMS)Postmarketing reports: Rhabdomyolysis
Rare ( to ): Acute renal failure
Common ( to ): Increased ALT, increased ASTRare ( to ): Jaundice, hepatitisFrequency not reported: Gamma GT elevations
Common ( to ): Infection, tooth abscessFrequency not reported: Influenza
It is possible that some side effects of Seroquel may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Chills
cold sweats
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
Black, tarry stools
blurred vision
changes in patterns and rhythms of speech
chest pain
cough
drooling
fever, muscle aches, or sore throat
inability to move the eyes
inability to sit still
increased blinking or spasms of the eyelid
lip smacking or puckering
loss of balance control
mask-like face
need to keep moving
painful or difficult urination
puffing of the cheeks
rapid or worm-like movements of the tongue
restlessness
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
shuffling walk
slowed movements
slurred speech
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
sticking out of the tongue
stiffness of the arms or legs
sweating
swelling of the face, arms, hands, feet, or lower legs
swollen glands
trembling and shaking of the hands and fingers
trouble with breathing, speaking, or swallowing
uncontrolled chewing movements
uncontrolled movements of the arms and legs
uncontrolled twisting movements of the neck, trunk, arms, or legs
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual facial expressions
unusual tiredness or weakness
Dry, puffy skin
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat
loss of appetite
menstrual changes
tiredness
unusual secretion of milk (in females)
weight gain
Aching or discomfort in the lower legs or sensation of crawling in the legs
painful or prolonged erection of the penis
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
skin rash, hives, or itching
tightness in the chest
tingling of the hands or feet
unusual weight gain or loss
Constipation
headache
Abnormal vision
acid or sour stomach
belching
decreased appetite
decreased strength and energy
headache
heartburn
increased appetite
increased muscle tone
increased sweating
increased weight
indigestion
sneezing
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
stuffy or runny nose