As well as its needed effects, sevelamer may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some sevelamer side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most frequently occurring adverse reactions included nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, flatulence, and constipation.
Gastrointestinal events are the most common adverse reactions reported with this drug.
Based on studies of  to  weeks, the most common reason for drug withdrawal are gastrointestinal adverse reactions ( to ).
Very common ( or more): Vomiting , nausea , diarrhea , dyspepsia Common ( to ): Abdominal pain, flatulence, constipation, gastrointestinal reflux diseaseFrequency not reported: Dysphagia, diverticulitisPostmarketing reports: Fecal impaction, ileus, intestinal obstruction, intestinal perforation
Common ( to ): Peritonitis
A clinical study in patients receiving peritoneal dialysis (n=) found the most frequently occurring treatment emergent serious adverse reaction was peritonitis.
Peritonitis occurred in  patients receiving sevelamer and  patients on active control.
Common ( to ): AnorexiaUncommon ( to ): Acidosis, increased serum chloride levels, decreased carbon dioxide
Postmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity
Very common ( or more): Nasopharyngitis, bronchitisCommon ( to ): Cough, upper respiratory tract infection, dyspnea
Postmarketing reports: Pruritus, rash
Common ( to ): Urinary tract infection
Common ( to ): Hypertension
Common ( to ): Arteriovenous fistula site complication, arteriovenous fistula site hemorrhage, arteriovenous fistula thrombosis
Common ( to ): Dizziness, headache
Common ( to ): Fatigue, fever
Common ( to ): Arthralgia, muscle spasms, extremity pain
It is possible that some side effects of sevelamer may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Bloody, black, or tarry stools
heartburn
indigestion
nausea
severe abdominal or stomach pain, cramping, or burning
severe constipation
severe vomiting
trouble with breathing
vomiting
vomiting of material that looks like coffee grounds, severe and continuing
Acid or sour stomach
belching
bloating
constipation
diarrhea
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
full feeling
passing gas
stomach discomfort or upset
Itching skin
rash