Side effects include:
Headache, dry mouth, anorexia, constipation, insomnia, rhinitis, pharyngitis, increased appetite, back pain, flu syndrome, accidental injury, asthenia, nausea, arthralgia, nervousness, dyspepsia, sinusitis.

General side effects, unrelated to a specific organ system, have included headaches , back pain , flu syndrome , accidental injury , asthenia , abdominal pain , chest pain , and neck pain .
Nervous system side effects have included dry mouth , insomnia , dizziness , nervousness , anxiety , depression , paresthesia , somnolence , CNS stimulation , emotional lability , amnesia, abnormal dreams, abnormal gait, amnesia, anger, cerebrovascular accident, impaired concentration, confusion, aggravated depression, Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome, hypesthesia, decreased libido, increased libido, mood changes, nightmares, short term memory loss, speech disorder, transient ischemic attack, tremor, twitch, and vertigo.
Less than  of patients have experienced seizures during therapy.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included anorexia , constipation , increased appetite , nausea , dyspepsia , gastritis , vomiting , and rectal disorder .
Respiratory system side effects have included rhinitis , pharyngitis , sinusitis , increased cough , and laryngitis .
Causal relationships have not been proven.
Musculoskeletal aches and pains associated with the use of this drug have included arthralgia , myalgia , tenosynovitis , and joint disorder .
Dermatologic side effects have included rash , sweating , herpes simplex , and acne .
A case of severe bullous drug eruption due to sibutramine has also been reported.
Genitourinary side effects have included dysmenorrhea , urinary tract infection , vaginal monilia , metrorrhagia , and urinary retention.
The manufacturer has reported that in placebo-controlled obesity studies, sibutramine  to  mg once a day has been associated with mean increases in systolic and diastolic blood pressure of approximately  to  mm Hg relative to placebo, and mean increases in pulse rate of approximately  to  beats per minute.
Cardiovascular side effects have included tachycardia , vasodilation , migraine , hypertension/increased blood pressure , and palpitation , arrhythmias, myocardial infarction, and cardiac arrest.
A few cases of QT interval prolongation have also been reported.
Other side effects have included taste perversion , ear disorder , and ear pain .
Metabolic side effects have included thirst  and generalized edema .
Hematologic side effects including significant improvements in serum triglyceride and HDL-C levels have been reported.
If depression occurs during treatment with sibutramine, further evaluation of the patient may be necessary.
Psychiatric side effects including cases of depression, psychosis, mania, suicidal ideation and suicide have been reported.
If any of these events should occur during treatment with sibutramine, discontinuation should be considered.
One case of exacerbation of panic attacks has also been reported.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included reactions ranging from mild skin eruptions and urticaria to angioedema and anaphylaxis.
It is possible that some side effects of sibutramine may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.