More frequently reported side effects include: eczema and increased creatine phosphokinase.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, simvastatin may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking simvastatin, check with your doctor immediately:
Some simvastatin side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Frequency not reported: Elevations in creatine kinase, myopathy, dermatomyositis, rhabdomyolysis, arthralgia, myalgia, tendon rupture, dermatomyositis, (exposure to HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is associated with a decreased risk of bone fractures in persons older than  years of age)
Simvastatin has been associated with rare cases of severe myopathy and rhabdomyolysis.
This is accompanied by elevations in creatine kinase, myoglobinuria, and proteinuria, as well as renal failure.
Experience with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors indicates that concomitant use with gemfibrozil, nicotinic acid, cyclosporin, or erythromycin may increase the incidence and the severity of musculoskeletal side effects.
Patients should be instructed to report symptoms of muscle pain, weakness, or tenderness.
If such symptoms develop, creatine kinase should be measured, and if elevated, simvastatin should be discontinued.
The value of regular monitoring of creatine kinase is not known.
In some studies, elevations in creatine kinase occurred in up to  of patients on simvastatin.
In most cases, these elevations were mild, transient, and not associated with clinical symptoms.
Persistent elevations in liver function tests three times normal values are reported in up to  of patients on simvastatin in clinical trials.
In one study, this led to the discontinuation of simvastatin in  of patients.
In other patients, elevations in liver function tests were transient and returned to normal with continued simvastatin therapy.
Liver function tests should be closely monitored.
Simvastatin should be discontinued in patients with persistent, significant elevations ( times normal) in liver function parameters.
Common ( to ): Elevations in liver function testsFrequency not reported: Hepatitis (including chronic active hepatitis), cholestatic jaundice, fatty changes in the liver, cirrhosis, hepatic failure, fulminant hepatic necrosis
Common ( to ): Constipation, nausea, flatulence, diarrhea, dyspepsia, abdominal painVery rare (less than ): Protein-losing enteropathyFrequency not reported: Anorexia, pancreatitis, vomiting
Frequency not reported: Hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, leucopenia, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP)
Common ( to ): HeadacheFrequency not reported: Cognitive impairment, cranial nerve dysfunction, tremor, vertigo, memory loss, paraesthesias, peripheral neuropathy, peripheral nerve palsy
Frequency not reported: Myoglobinuria, acute renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis
Common ( to ): Angina
The Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (S) demonstrated a  reduction in total mortality in patients followed for a median of  years and a  decrease in death from coronary heart disease compared to placebo.
Simvastatin reduced the risk of major coronary events by , hospital verified nonfatal myocardial infarction by , and the need for coronary artery bypass graft or angioplasty by , all significant compared to placebo.
Frequency not reported: Eczematous, pruritic rash, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, photosensitivity, purpura, alopecia
Frequency not reported: Hypospermia, gynecomastia, thyroid function abnormalities, increases in HbAc and fasting serum glucose levels.
Acid maltase deficiency (the genetic disorder also referred to as Pompe's Disease) has been revealed following simvastatin therapy in at least one presymptomatic patient.
Frequency not reported: Anaphylaxis, angioedema, urticaria, fever, chills, flushing, malaise, dyspnea
Frequency not reported: A case of lupus-like syndrome which has been reported with other HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, positive ANA, ESR increase, polymyalgia rheumatica, and vasculitis
Frequency not reported: Progression of cataracts, ophthalmoplegia
Frequency not reported: Depression, suicidal thoughts, delusions, paranoia, agitation, decreased libido, anxiety, insomnia, nightmares
Frequency not reported: Erectile dysfunction, impotence, testicular pain
Frequency not reported: Tumor growth, liver, thyroid, lung adenomas, carcinomas
It is possible that some side effects of simvastatin may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Dizziness
fainting
fast or irregular heartbeat
Bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
blurred vision
body aches or pain
chills
cough
dark-colored urine
difficult, burning, or painful urination
difficulty with breathing
difficulty with moving
dry mouth
ear congestion
fever
flushed, dry skin
frequent urge to urinate
fruit-like breath odor
headache
increased hunger
increased thirst
increased urination
joint pain
loss of consciousness
lower back or side pain
muscle cramps, spasms, or stiffness
muscular pain, tenderness, wasting, or weakness
nasal congestion
nausea
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
stomachache
sweating
swelling
swollen joints
troubled breathing
unexplained weight loss
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
bloating
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
constipation
diarrhea
difficulty with swallowing
general tiredness and weakness
indigestion
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
pale skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
skin rash, hives, or itching
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
weakness in the arms, hands, legs, or feet
yellow eyes or skin
Acid or sour stomach
belching
burning feeling in the chest or stomach
dizziness or lightheadedness
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
full feeling
heartburn
lack or loss of strength
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
passing gas
sensation of spinning
skin rash, encrusted, scaly, and oozing
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
tenderness in the stomach area
trouble sleeping
Being forgetful
depression
discoloration of the skin
hair loss or thinning of the hair
inability to have or keep an erection
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance