As well as its needed effects, sitagliptin may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some sitagliptin side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Common ( to ): Hypoglycemia (when used in combination with insulin or sulfonylurea)
In a pooled analysis of  trials (sitagliptin  mg/day, n=; active control or placebo, n=), the incidence of acute pancreatitis was in  per  patient-years in each group ( patients in each group)
Common ( to ): Abdominal pain, nausea, diarrhea, constipation, gastroenteritisPostmarketing reports: Acute pancreatitis, including fatal and non-fatal hemorrhagic or necrotizing pancreatitis, vomiting
Common ( to ): Nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory infection, pharyngitis, Postmarketing reports: Interstitial lung disease
Common ( to ): HeadacheUncommon ( to ): Dizziness
There have been postmarketing reports of serious hypersensitivity reactions in patients treated with this drug.
Reactions have occurred within the first  months of therapy initiation, with some reports occurring after the first dose.
Postmarketing reports: Serious hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, urticaria, cutaneous vasculitis, and exfoliative skin conditions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome
Postmarketing reports: Hepatic enzyme elevations
There have been postmarketing reports of worsening renal function, including acute renal failure, sometime requiring dialysis.
A subset of these reports involved patients with renal insufficiency, some who were prescribed inappropriate doses of this drug.
With drug discontinuation, supportive treatment and discontinuation of potentially causative agents, a return to baseline levels of renal insufficiency occurred.
Postmarketing reports: Worsening renal function
Postmarketing reports: Arthralgia, myalgia, extremity pain, back pain, osteoarthritis
Between October  and December , thirty-three cases of severe arthralgia have been reported to the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System Database.
Each case involved the use of  or more dipeptidyl peptidase- (DPP-) inhibitors.
In all cases, substantial reduction in prior activity level was reported,  patients were hospitalized due to disabling joint pain.
In  cases, symptoms appeared within  month of starting therapy.
In  cases symptoms resolved less than  month after discontinuation.
A positive rechallenge was reported in  cases, with  cases involving use of a different DPP- inhibitor.
Sitagliptin had the greatest number of cases reported (n=) followed by saxagliptin (n=), linagliptin (n=), alogliptin (n=), and vildagliptin (n=).
Common ( to ): Hypertension
Postmarketing reports: Pruritus
The most commonly reported adverse events included upper respiratory tract infection, nasopharyngitis, and headache.
As add-on to insulin studies, hypoglycemia was commonly reported.
It is possible that some side effects of sitagliptin may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Anxiety
blurred vision
chills
cold sweats
confusion
cool, pale skin
depression
dizziness
fast heartbeat
headache
increased hunger
loss of consciousness
nausea
nightmares
seizures
shakiness
slurred speech
unusual tiredness or weakness
Blistering, peeling, loosening of the skin
diarrhea
hives or welts, itching, or skin rash
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
redness of the skin
severe joint pain
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
vomiting
Body aches or pain
cough
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
fever
loss of voice
muscle aches
sneezing
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
Abdominal or stomach pain
diarrhea