Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, sodium biphosphate / sodium phosphate may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking sodium biphosphate / sodium phosphate, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking sodium biphosphate / sodium phosphate, get emergency help immediately:
Gastrointestinal side effects associated with sodium biphosphate-sodium phosphate tablets have included bloating (up to ), nausea (up to ), abdominal pain (up to ), and vomiting (up to ).
Anal irritation, diarrhea, nausea, and stomach cramps have been reported with the enema formulation.
Possible side effects associated with the enema formulation have included vomiting, abdominal pain, abdominal distension, gastrointestinal pain, and anal discomfort.
Metabolic side effects associated with sodium biphosphate-sodium phosphate tablets have included changes in serum electrolytes (including phosphate, calcium, potassium, and sodium).
Possible side effects associated with the enema formulation have included dehydration, hyperphosphatemia, hypocalcemia, hypernatremia, and metabolic acidosis.
Renal side effects associated with sodium biphosphate-sodium phosphate tablets have included renal impairment, increased blood urea nitrogen (BUN), increased creatinine, acute renal failure, acute phosphate nephropathy, nephrocalcinosis, and renal tubular necrosis during postmarketing experience.
Nervous system side effects have included dizziness and headache.
Seizures have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Cardiovascular side effects associated with sodium biphosphate-sodium phosphate tablets have included arrhythmias during postmarketing experience.
Hypersensitivity side effects associated with sodium biphosphate-sodium phosphate tablets have included anaphylaxis, rash, pruritus, urticaria, throat tightness, bronchospasm, dyspnea, pharyngeal edema, dysphasia, paresthesia, swelling of the lips and tongue, and facial swelling during postmarketing experience.
Possible side effects associated with the enema formulation have included hypersensitivity and pruritus.
Respiratory side effects associated with sodium biphosphate-sodium phosphate tablets have included bronchospasm, dyspnea, and dysphagia during postmarketing experience; these side effects were associated with hypersensitivity reactions.
Other possible side effects associated with the enema formulation have included chills, blistering, and stinging.
It is possible that some side effects of sodium biphosphate / sodium phosphate may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
rectal enema
Abdominal or stomach pain
bloating
nausea
vomiting
Agitation
bloody or cloudy urine
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
coma
confusion
cough
decreased urine output
depression
difficult or labored breathing
difficult or painful urination
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fainting
fast, slow, or irregular heartbeat
headache
hostility
irritability
lethargy
muscle twitching
noisy breathing
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rapid weight gain
redness of the skin
seizures
skin rash, hives or welts, or itching
stupor
swelling of the face, ankles, or hands
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
Abdominal or stomach cramps
blurred vision
chest pain or discomfort
decreased frequency of urine
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
dry mouth
increase in heart rate
increased thirst
lightheadedness
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
muscle cramps in the hands, arms, feet, legs, or face
muscle pain
pounding or rapid pulse
rapid breathing
restlessness
sunken eyes
sweating
tremor
weakness
weight gain
wrinkled skin