As well as its needed effects, sofosbuvir may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some sofosbuvir side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
This drug should be used with ribavirin or peginterferon alfa/ribavirin.
The manufacturer product information for these agents should be consulted for side effects.
The most common side effects reported with sofosbuvir and ribavirin therapy were fatigue and headache.
The most common side effects reported with sofosbuvir, peginterferon alfa, and ribavirin therapy were fatigue, headache, nausea, insomnia, and anemia.
Therapy was permanently discontinued due to side effects in  to  of subjects using placebo,  to  of subjects using sofosbuvir and ribavirin for  weeks, less than  of subjects using sofosbuvir and ribavirin for  weeks,  of subjects using peginterferon alfa and ribavirin for  weeks, and  of subjects using sofosbuvir, peginterferon alfa, and ribavirin for  weeks.
Very common ( or more): Fatigue (up to ), asthenia (up to ), pyrexia (up to ), chills (up to ), influenza-like illness (up to ), painCommon ( to ): Chest pain
Very common ( or more): Headache (up to ), dizzinessCommon ( to ): Disturbance in attention, migraine, memory impairment
Increased lipase (greater than  times upper limit of normal [ULN]) was reported in up to  of patients.
Lipase elevation was isolated and asymptomatic.
Very common ( or more): Nausea (up to ), diarrhea (up to ), vomitingCommon ( to ): Increased lipase, abdominal discomfort, constipation, dyspepsia, dry mouth, gastroesophageal reflux
Very common ( or more): Pruritus (up to ), rash Common ( to ): Alopecia, dry skin
Very common ( or more): Insomnia (up to ), irritability (up to )Common ( to ): Depression, anxiety, agitationUncommon ( to ): Severe depression (including suicidal ideation, suicide)
Severe depression was reported, particularly in patients with history of psychiatric illness.
Very common ( or more): Decreased hemoglobin (up to ), anemia (up to ), neutropenia (up to ), decreased neutrophils (up to ), decreased lymphocyte count, decreased platelet countUncommon ( to ): Pancytopenia
Decreased hemoglobin (less than  g/dL: up to ; less than  g/dL: up to ), decreased neutrophils ( to less than  x []/L: up to ; less than  x []/L: up to ), and decreased platelets ( to less than  x []/L: up to ) have been reported.
Pancytopenia was reported, particularly in patients using concomitant pegylated interferon.
Postmarketing reports: Symptomatic bradycardia (including cases requiring pacemaker intervention)
Serious symptomatic bradycardia has been reported in patients taking amiodarone who started therapy with this drug in combination with another hepatitis C virus direct-acting antiviral.
Very common ( or more): Decreased appetite (up to )Common ( to ): Decreased weight
Very common ( or more): Myalgia (up to ), arthralgiaCommon ( to ): Increased creatine kinase, back pain, muscle spasms
Increased creatine kinase (at least  times ULN) was reported in up to  of patients.
Creatine kinase elevation was isolated and asymptomatic.
Very common ( or more): Dyspnea, coughCommon ( to ): Nasopharyngitis, exertional dyspnea
Common ( to ): Increased total bilirubin
Increased total bilirubin (greater than  times ULN) was reported in up to  of patients.
Bilirubin levels peaked during the first  to  weeks of therapy then decreased and returned to baseline levels by  weeks after therapy.
These bilirubin elevations were not associated with transaminase elevations.
Common ( to ): Blurred vision
It is possible that some side effects of sofosbuvir may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Chills
fever
lower back or side pain
pale skin
ulcers, sores, or white spots in the mouth
unusual tiredness or weakness
Changes in behavior
discouragement
feeling sad or empty
loss of interest or pleasure
thoughts of killing oneself
trouble concentrating
Chest pain or discomfort
lightheadedness, dizziness, or fainting
shortness of breath
slow or irregular heartbeat
unusual tiredness
Decreased appetite
diarrhea
difficulty with moving
headache
irritability
lack or loss of strength
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pains or stiffness
nausea
rash or itching skin
trouble sleeping