As well as its needed effects, pegvisomant (the active ingredient contained in Somavert) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some pegvisomant side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
During premarketing clinical studies two patients  had elevations of serum concentrations of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase greater than  times the upper limit of normal.
In both patients, the transaminase elevations normalized after discontinuation of the drug.
In other studies, up to  of patients experienced abnormal liver function tests.
Hepatic side effects have included abnormal liver function tests (elevations of serum concentrations of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase) in up to  of patients treated.
Immunologic side effects have included the development of low titer non-neutralizing antigrowth hormone antibodies.
General side effects have included infection ( to ), pain ( to ), flu syndrome ( to ), and accidental injury ( to ).
Musculoskeletal side effects have included back pain  and chest pain .
Respiratory side effects have included sinusitis .
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea  and nausea .
Nervous system side effects have included headache , dizziness  and paresthesias .
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypertension  and peripheral edema .
Local side effects have included injection site reactions .
Metabolic side effects have included hypercholesterolemia .
Lipohypertrophy has been reported in less than  of patients following pegvisomant (the active ingredient contained in Somavert) administration.
Hypersensitivity reactions have included postmarketing reports of systemic hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactic reactions, laryngospasm, angioedema, and generalized skin reactions (rash, erythema, pruritus, and urticaria).
It is possible that some side effects of Somavert may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, or discoloration of skin at site of injection
bloating or swelling of face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
blurred vision
chest pain
chills
cough
dizziness
feeling of pressure
fever
headache
hives
hoarseness
infection, inflammation, itching, or lump at site of injection
nervousness
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
pounding in the ears
rapid weight gain
slow or fast heartbeat
tingling of hands or feet
unusual weight gain or loss
Thickening of the skin
Abdominal pain or tenderness
clay colored stools
dark urine
decreased appetite
fever
itching
loss of appetite
nausea and vomiting
skin rash
unusual tiredness or weakness
yellow eyes or skin
Accidental injury
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
diarrhea
general feeling of discomfort or illness
joint pain
muscle aches and pains
pain
pain or tenderness around eyes and cheekbones
runny or stuffy nose
shivering
shortness of breath or troubled breathing
sore throat
sweating
tightness of chest or wheezing
trouble sleeping