As well as its needed effects, sodium tetradecyl sulfate (the active ingredient contained in Sotradecol) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking sodium tetradecyl sulfate, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some sodium tetradecyl sulfate side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Local side effects have included pain and urticaria or ulceration at the injection site.
A permanent discoloration along the path of the sclerosed vein segment has also been reported.
Four cases of anaphylactic shock leading to death have been reported in patients receiving sodium tetradecyl sulfate (the active ingredient contained in Sotradecol)   Of these four patients, one had a history of asthma.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included hives, asthma, hayfever, and anaphylactic shock.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea and vomiting.
General side effects have included headache.
It is possible that some side effects of Sotradecol may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Anxiety
burning
chest pain
cough
difficulty breathing
difficulty swallowing
dizziness or light-headedness
fainting
fast heartbeat
hayfever
hives
itching
nausea
noisy breathing
pain, redness, or swelling in arm or leg
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips or tongue
raised red swellings on the skin, lips, tongue, or in the throat
redness of skin
skin rash
sudden shortness of breath or troubled breathing
tightness in chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
wheezing
Headache
pain, local
pain or redness at site of injection
pale skin at site of injection
peeling or sloughing of skin
ulceration at site of injection