Common side effects of Spiriva include: xerostomia.
Other side effects include: infection and skin rash.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, tiotropium (the active ingredient contained in Spiriva) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking tiotropium, check with your doctor immediately:
Some tiotropium side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most commonly reported adverse reaction was dry mouth, usually mild and often resolved during continued treatment.
Other reactions consistent with possible anticholinergic effects included constipation, tachycardia, blurred vision, glaucoma (new onset or worsening), dysuria, and urinary retention.
Very common (10% or more): Pharyngitis (11.
5%) Common (1% to 10%): Respiratory tract infection, cough, sinusitis, rhinitis, epistaxis, dysphonia, chest pain, laryngitisRare (less than 0.
1%): Epistaxis, bronchospasm, Postmarketing reports: Pharyngolaryngeal pain, throat irritation, hoarseness
Common (1% to 10%): Palpitations, angina pectoris (including aggravated angina pectoris)Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Atrial fibrillationRare (less than 0.
1%): Palpitations, supraventricular tachycardia, tachycardia
Common (1% to 10%): Pruritus, rashRare (less than 0.
1%): Angioneurotic edema, urticaria, skin infection, skin ulcer, dry skin
Common (1% to 10%): Dry mouth, constipation, gastroesophageal reflux, oropharyngeal candidiasis, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, vomitingUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Dysphagia, gingivitis, intestinal obstruction including ileus paralytic, stomatitis (including ulcerative stomatitis) Rare (less than 0.
1%): Dental caries, glossitis Frequency not reported: NauseaPostmarketing reports: Oral candidiasis, throat irritation, mouth ulceration
Common (1% to 10%): Urinary tract infectionUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Urinary retention, dysuria
Common (1% to 10%): Allergic reactionsRare (less than 0.
1%): Angioedema, hypersensitivity (including immediate reactions)Frequency not reported: Anaphylactic reactions
Common (1% to 10%): Hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemiaFrequency not reported: Dehydration
Common (1% to 10%): Myalgia, arthritis, skeletal pain, leg painFrequency not reported: Join swelling
Common (1% to 10%): Dizziness, paresthesiaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Headache, insomnia, taste disorder
Common (1% to 10%): CataractUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Blurred visionRare (less than 0.
1%): Glaucoma, intraocular pressure increased
Common (1% to 10%): Edema, infections, moniliasis, influenza-like symptoms, herpes zoster
Common (1% to 10%): Depression
It is possible that some side effects of Spiriva may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Arm, back, or jaw pain
chest pain or discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
fast or irregular heartbeat
nausea
shortness of breath
sweating
Cough
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
hives, itching, or skin rash
painful blisters on the trunk of body
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
Fainting
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
Acid or sour stomach
belching
bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
body aches or pain
chest pain
chills
congestion
cough
difficult, burning, or painful urination
dry mouth
dryness of the throat
ear congestion
fever
frequent urge to urinate
headache
heartburn
hoarseness
indigestion
loss of voice
lower back or side pain
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
runny or stuffy nose
sneezing
sore throat
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
tender, swollen glands in the neck
voice changes
Bloody nose
blurred vision
bone pain
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
canker sores
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
discouragement
feeling sad or empty
flushed, dry skin
fruit-like breath odor
increased hunger
increased thirst
increased urination
irritability
lack of appetite
leg pain
loss of interest or pleasure
muscle pain
nausea
painful or difficult urination
sore mouth or tongue
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or tongue or inside the mouth
sweating
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
tiredness
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
unexplained weight loss
vomiting
Bloating
change in vision
diarrhea
red skin