As well as its needed effects, ethinyl estradiol / norgestimate may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking ethinyl estradiol / norgestimate, check with your doctor immediately:
Some ethinyl estradiol / norgestimate side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Many of the adverse effects experienced by women on oral contraceptive combination products are related to a relative excess or deficiency of the estrogen and progestin components of these formulations.
The following categorizes many of the frequent adverse effects by relative excess or deficiency of these components.
Progestin Excess:Acne, oily skinBreast tendernessDepressionTiredness, fatigueHair lossHypertensionIncreased appetiteWeight gainCholestatic jaundiceProgestin Deficiency:Late breakthrough bleedingAmenorrheaHypermenorrheaEstrogen Excess:NauseaHeadacheMelasmaHypertensionBreast tendernessEdemaEstrogen Deficiency:Early/mid-cycle breakthrough bleedingIncreased spottingHypomenorrhea
Women taking oral contraceptive combinations experience several non-contraceptive health benefits.
These benefits include protection against two malignant neoplasms (endometrial carcinoma and ovarian cancer).
In addition, use of oral contraceptive combinations decreases the frequency of benign breast tumors, decreases the risk of ovarian cysts, decreases the risk of ectopic pregnancy, increases menstrual regularity, decreases the incidence of iron deficiency anemia, decreases the incidence of dysmenorrhea, and decreases the incidence of pelvic inflammatory disease.
A number of studies have suggested that use of oral contraceptives decreases the risk of ovarian cancer.
Specifically, the risk of epithelial ovarian cancers is decreased by .
The protection against ovarian cancer may last for  to  years after discontinuation of oral contraceptives.
After long term use ( years), the risk of ovarian cancer is decreased by as much as .
The risk of endometrial cancer is decreased by approximately .
Protection may last for  years after discontinuation and may be greatest for nulliparous women who may be at higher risk for endometrial carcinoma than other women.
The incidence of hospitalization for pelvic inflammatory disease is approximately  lower in women taking oral contraceptives.
The reason for the decrease in the frequency (or severity) of pelvic inflammatory disease in women taking oral contraceptives has not been fully elucidated.
Some recent studies have suggested that the decrease in frequency of functional ovarian cysts reported with some older formulations may not occur in women taking newer low dose formulations.
One recent study (The Nurses' Health Study) has suggested that long term use of oral contraceptives is safe and does not adversely affect long term risk for mortality.
A relatively common gastrointestinal side effect is nausea, which occurs in approximately  of treated women and may be more frequent during the first cycles of therapy.
Some early reports suggested an association between oral contraceptive use and gallbladder disease.
Cases of oral contraceptive-induced esophageal ulceration and geographic tongue have been reported rarely.
More recent studies have suggested that the risk of gallbladder disease is minimal.
The World Health Organization committee also noted that some studies "have found a weak association between long-term use of oral contraceptives and breast cancer diagnosed before the age of , and perhaps up to the age It is unclear whether this observed association is attributable to bias, the development of new cases of cancer, or accelerated growth of existing cancers.
"The World Health Organization committee further concluded that there is no increased risk of breast cancer in women over the age of  who have previously taken oral contraceptives.
In addition, studies suggest that use of oral contraceptives does not place specific groups of women (like those with a family history of breast cancer) at higher or lower risk, and variations in the hormonal content of oral contraceptives do not influence the risk of breast cancer.
In general, studies evaluating the potential risk of cervical cancer in patients taking oral contraceptives have been complicated by the large number of confounding factors which make investigations into the epidemiology of this neoplasm difficult.
Some studies have suggested that women taking oral contraceptives are at increased risk of dysplasia, epidermoid carcinoma, and adenocarcinoma of the cervix.
However, other studies have not found such an association.
A number of studies have examined a possible relationship between the use of oral contraceptives and the development of breast cancer.
Many of the studies have reported conflicting results.
A committee of the World Health Organization evaluated these studies and the risks of breast cancer and concluded that:  "Numerous studies have found no overall association between oral contraceptive use and risk of breast cancer.
"  In addition, the same committee also examined a possible relationship between oral contraceptive use and neoplasms of the uterine cervix and concluded that: "There are insufficient data to draw any firm conclusions regarding the effects of combined oral contraceptives on the risk of cervical adenocarcinoma.
"
Oral contraceptive combinations have been studied extensively for oncologic side effects.
A number of studies have examined a possible relationship between the use of oral contraceptives and the development of breast cancer.
Many of the studies have reported conflicting results.
A committee of the World Health Organization evaluated these studies and the risks of breast cancer and concluded that:  "Numerous studies have found no overall association between oral contraceptive use and risk of breast cancer.
"  In addition, the same committee also examined a possible relationship between oral contraceptive use and neoplasms of the uterine cervix and concluded that: "There are insufficient data to draw any firm conclusions regarding the effects of combined oral contraceptives on the risk of cervical adenocarcinoma.
"
Detailed information concerning the effects of oral contraceptive therapy on lipid metabolism is available in the Endocrine paragraph of this side effect monograph.
Some early investigations of women taking high dose estrogen combinations ( mcg or more of ethinyl estradiol or equivalent daily) suggested that such women may be at increased risk of cardiovascular complications (myocardial infarction, stroke, and vascular thrombosis, including venous thromboembolism).
However, more recent large investigations of women taking low dose estrogen combinations have suggested that oral contraceptive use is not associated with an increased risk of serious cardiovascular complications in healthy non smoking women up to the age of   (For women aged  to  who smoke or who have preexisting systemic diseases that may affect the cardiovascular system, use of oral contraceptives is not recommended.
)However, some investigators have suggested that even the new low dose products may result in adverse effects on lipid metabolism and should prompt careful review of a woman's cardiovascular risk factors before a decision to use oral contraceptive combinations is made.
The frequency of both subarachnoid hemorrhage and thrombotic stroke has been reported by some investigators to be higher in women taking oral contraceptive hormones.
However, other investigators have suggested that the risk of these effects for women using newer low dose formulations are very small for young women without underlying cardiovascular disease or other risk factors.
Endocrine and metabolic effects include complex alterations in plasma lipid profiles and carbohydrate metabolism.
In addition, oral contraceptive use has been reported to cause conception delay.
All the progestins which occur in commercially available oral contraceptive combinations have adverse effects on lipid profiles.
Specifically, these progestins exert antiestrogen and androgen effects and decrease HDL (and HDL) cholesterol levels and increase LDL cholesterol levels.
However, the estrogens in oral contraceptive combinations exert opposing effects.
Consequently, alterations in lipid profiles are related to the relative amount and potency of the specific estrogen and progestin in a given product.
(Norgestimate exerts strong progestin and antiestrogen effects.
)A number of investigations have suggested that oral contraceptive combinations may decrease glucose tolerance.
However, some recent studies with low dose preparations have suggested that decreases in glucose tolerance due to oral contraceptive combinations are generally minimal.
Despite the potentially adverse effects of oral contraceptives on lipid levels and glucose tolerance, some investigators have suggested that young diabetic women without existing vascular disease or severe lipidemias may be candidates for low dose oral contraceptive combinations provided that they receive close monitoring for adverse metabolic effects.
Hepatic side effects include focal nodular hyperplasia, intrahepatic cholestasis, liver cell adenomas, hepatic granulomas, hepatic hemangiomas and well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinomas, which have been reported rarely in association with estrogen therapy and therapy with oral contraceptive combinations.
The rate of death due to hepatocellular carcinoma in the United States has not changed during the last  years (a time during which use of oral contraceptive hormones has increased dramatically).
A committee of the World Health Organization has reported that in developing countries where hepatitis B virus infection and hepatocellular carcinoma are common, "short term use of oral contraceptives does not appear to be associated with an increased risk.
Data on the effects of long term use are scarce.
"A recent Italian case-control study of women with hepatocellular carcinoma has suggested that the relative risk of hepatocellular carcinoma is  for oral contraceptive users compared to women who never used oral contraceptives.
A similar American case-control study from  also reported a strong association between oral contraceptive use and hepatocellular carcinoma but concluded that: "If this observed association is causal, the actual number of cases of liver cancer in the United States attributable to oral contraceptive use is small.
Therefore, these findings do not have public health importance in the United States and other Western nations.
"
Cases of venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism (sometimes fatal), and arterial thrombosis have been reported rarely.
Previous thrombotic disease is considered a contraindication to use of oral contraceptive combinations.
A hematologic concern is the risk of thromboembolism that is associated with the use of exogenous estrogens.
However, because the dose of exogenous estrogens is low in most commercially available preparations, the risk of thromboembolism is minimal for most women (except women who are over age  and smoke and women with a history of previous thrombotic diseases).
A common genitourinary side effect is breakthrough bleeding and spotting, especially during the first several cycles of oral contraceptive use.
Non-hormonal causes of such bleeding should be excluded.
Some women experience oligomenorrhea and amenorrhea following termination or oral contraceptive use.
Psychiatric side effects include depression and precipitation of panic disorder.
Immunologic side effects include cases of oral contraceptive-induced systemic lupus erythematosus which have been reported rarely.
A case of fatal pulmonary venooclusive disease has been associated with oral contraceptive therapy.
Nervous system side effects include chorea, which has been reported once in association with oral contraceptives.
Ocular side effects include cases of retinal thrombosis, which have been reported rarely.
In addition, the manufacturers of oral contraceptive products report that some patients develop changes in contact lens tolerance.
It is possible that some side effects of Sprintec may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal or stomach pain
absent, missed, or irregular menstrual periods
anxiety
change in vision
changes in skin color
chest pain or discomfort
chills
clay-colored stools
constipation
cough
dark urine
diarrhea
dizziness or lightheadedness
fainting
fever
headache
hives or welts
itching skin
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
medium to heavy, irregular vaginal bleeding between regular monthly periods, which may require the use of a pad or a tampon
nausea and vomiting
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
pain, tenderness, or swelling of the foot or leg
pains in the chest, groin, or legs, especially in the calves of the legs
pounding in the ears
rash
redness of the skin
severe headaches of sudden onset
slow or fast heartbeat
sudden loss of coordination or slurred speech
sudden onset of shortness of breath for no apparent reason
sudden shortness of breath or troubled breathing
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood
Abdominal or stomach cramps
bloating
blotchy spots on the exposed skin
breast enlargement or tenderness
discouragement
feeling sad or empty
irritability
itching of the vagina or outside the genitals
loss of interest or pleasure
pain during sexual intercourse
thick, white curd-like vaginal discharge without odor or with mild odor
tiredness
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
trouble wearing contact lenses