As well as its needed effects, succimer may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking succimer, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some succimer side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Succimer may cause your urine, sweat, and feces to have an unpleasant odor.
Gastrointestinal side effects (12% in children and 20.
9% in adults) have included nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, appetite loss, hemorrhoidal symptoms, loose stools, and metallic taste in mouth.
Abdominal cramps and stomach pain have also been reported in patients receiving succimer.
General side effects (5.
2% in children and 15.
7% in adults) have included back pain, head pain, rib pain, chills, flank pain, fever, flu-like symptoms, heavy head/tired, head cold, headache, and moniliasis.
Metabolic side effects (4.
2% in children and 10.
4% in adults) have included elevated serum cholesterol and increased proteinuria.
Hepatic side effects (4.
2% in children and 10.
4% in adults) have included elevated SGPT, SGOT, and alkaline phosphatase.
Respiratory side effects (3.
7% in children and 0.
7% in adults) have included rhinorrhea, nasal congestion, and cough.
Genitourinary side effects (3.
7% in adults) have included decreased urination and voiding difficulty.
Other side effects (3.
7% in children and 0.
7% in adults) have included plugged ears, otitis media, and sore throat.
Dermatologic side effects (2.
6% in children and 11.
2% in adults) have included papular rash, herpetic rash, rash, mucocutaneous eruptions, and pruritus.
Musculoskeletal side effects (3.
0% in adults) have included kneecap pain and leg pains.
Cardiovascular side effects (1.
8% in adults) have included arrhythmia.
Nervous system side effects (1.
0% in children and 12.
7% in adults) have included drowsiness, dizziness, sensorimotor neuropathy, sleepiness, and paresthesia.
Ocular side effects (1.
0% in children and 3.
0% in adults) have included cloudy film in eye and watery eyes.
Hematologic side effects (0.
5% in children and 1.
5% in adults) have included mild to moderate neutropenia, increased platelet count, and intermittent eosinophilia.
It is possible that some side effects of succimer may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Chills
fever
Diarrhea
loose stools
loss of appetite
nausea and vomiting 
skin rash