Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, sulfamethoxazole / trimethoprim may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking sulfamethoxazole / trimethoprim, check with your doctor immediately:
Some sulfamethoxazole / trimethoprim side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Rare (less than ): ThrombophlebitisPostmarketing reports: QT prolongation resulting in ventricular tachycardia and torsade de pointes
Dermatologic side effects were usually due to hypersensitivity to the sulfamethoxazole component.
A few cases of acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis (Sweet's syndrome), characterized by abrupt onset of painful erythematous plaques or nodules and a fever greater than  degrees Celsius, have been reported.
Rare (less than ): Acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis (Sweet's syndrome), acute patchy exanthematous pustulosis (at least  case)Frequency not reported: Mild erythroderma, severe exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, generalized skin eruptions, photosensitivity, phototoxicity, pruritus, urticaria, rash
Frequency not reported: Nausea, vomiting/emesis, diarrhea, stomatitis, glossitis, abdominal pain, anorexia, pseudomembranous colitis, Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, pancreatitis
Because trimethoprim inhibits a step in folate synthesis, patients that are likely to have preexisting folate deficiencies (, alcoholics, malnourished patients, patients on phenytoin or antifolate metabolites, and those with chronic hemolysis) are at risk of developing megaloblastic anemia during sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim therapy.
Folate replenishment reverses this effect.
Methemoglobinemia occurred twice in an HIV-infected patient who inadvertently received sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim a second time after the first course was discontinued due to development of methemoglobinemia.
Frequency not reported: Agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, neutropenia, hemolytic anemia, megaloblastic anemia, hypoprothrombinemia, methemoglobinemia, eosinophiliaPostmarketing reports: Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura
Cholestatic hepatitis associated with sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim therapy may present with other signs of hypersensitivity, such as rash, fever, and eosinophilia.
Biopsy findings in patients with sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim-associated cholestatic hepatitis have included hepatic necrosis, hepatocyte degeneration, hepatic granuloma, centrilobular congestion, and inflammatory infiltrates.
A -year-old female developed pancreatitis and hepatitis after inadvertently receiving sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim for treatment of a urinary tract infection several years after experiencing a previous episode of sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim-associated hepatitis.
Frequency not reported: Hepatitis (including cholestatic jaundice, hepatic necrosis), elevated serum transaminase, elevated bilirubin, elevated liver function tests, fulminant hepatic failure, hepatic and/or cholestatic lesions, hepatitis with simultaneous pancreatitis, hepatorenal failure, cholestatic liver disease with ductopenia
Frequency not reported: Anaphylaxis, allergic myocarditis, angioedema, Henoch-Schonlein purpura, serum sickness-like syndrome, generalized allergic reactions, fixed drug eruption, hypersensitivity reactions (including cholestatic jaundice, interstitial nephritis, liver failure, renal failure, pancytopenia, hypotension, pulmonary edema, elevated serum transaminases)
A case of fixed drug eruption due to polysensitivity (sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim and tenoxicam) and reactivation of previous ( years earlier) sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim-associated fixed drug eruption lesions has been reported.
Hypersensitivity reactions may be more likely in patients with HIV infection, with opportunistic infections, or patients who are slow acetylators.
Hypotension, pulmonary edema, and elevated serum transaminases have been reported following sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim administration to HIV-infected patients.
Hypersensitivity reactions in some cases have included cholestatic jaundice, interstitial nephritis, liver failure, renal failure, and pancytopenia.
A -year-old male developed liver failure, renal failure requiring hemodialysis, and pancytopenia requiring blood transfusions after  days of treatment with sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim for pyelonephritis.
This was believed to be a hypersensitivity reaction.
He was a slow acetylator phenotype and had concurrently taken acetaminophen and diclofenac; the acetaminophen may have contributed to the reaction by inhibiting NAT
Rare (less than ): Local reaction, pain, slight irritation
Local reaction, pain, and slight irritation on intravenous administration have been reported infrequently.
Rare (less than ): HypoglycemiaFrequency not reported: Hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, hyponatremia, hypouricemia
Hyperkalemia may occur as a result of the blocking of sodium channels by trimethoprim, which causes a reduction of potassium excretion in the distal tubule.
High doses of intravenous sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim appear to be associated with a greater incidence of metabolic acidosis.
Sulfonamides may induce hypoglycemia.
However, the establishment of a causal relationship has been difficult in most cases of suspected sulfa-induced hypoglycemia because many of the affected patients had AIDS, may have had another viral infection, or were on other medications.
Hypouricemia has been associated with high-dose therapy.
Isolated cases of rhabdomyolysis have been reported, primarily in patients with AIDS.
Rare (less than ): RhabdomyolysisFrequency not reported: Arthralgia, myalgia, periarteritis nodosa, systemic lupus erythematosus
Exacerbation of posthypoxic action myoclonus occurred in a patient with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who was receiving high-dose intravenous sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim ( mg/kg/day) for suspected Pneumocystis pneumonia.
HIV-infected patients receiving high-dose intravenous sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim appear to have a greater incidence of tremors.
The tremors generally appear several days after initiating therapy and resolve several days after discontinuation or dose reduction.
An -year-old male developed higher-level gait disorder on day  of treatment,  days after his dosage was doubled to sulfamethoxazole  mg-trimethoprim  mg orally twice a day.
During this time, the patient also had nocturnal delirium.
Sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim was discontinued on day  and the patient's gait returned to normal and his nocturnal delirium resolved by day 
Rare (less than ): Higher-level gait disorder (at least  case)Frequency not reported: Aseptic meningitis, convulsions, peripheral neuritis, ataxia, vertigo, tinnitus, headache, dizziness, tremors, lightheadedness, coma, seizures, multifocal myoclonus, bilateral asterixis, exacerbation of posthypoxic action myoclonus
Frequency not reported: Conjunctival and scleral injection
Frequency not reported: Hallucinations, depression, apathy, nervousness, insomnia, irritability, confusion, disorientation, catatonia, nocturnal delirium, exacerbation of panic attacks, acute psychoses
Frequency not reported: Renal failure, interstitial nephritis, elevated BUN and serum creatinine, toxic nephrosis with oliguria and anuria, tubular necrosis, crystalluria, aggravation of renal disease, azotemia, hyperkalemic renal tubular acidosis, overestimations of normal creatinine values
Trimethoprim inhibits renal tubular creatinine secretion, which can result in a significant decrease in creatinine clearance.
These changes appear to be completely reversible upon discontinuation of therapy.
Sulfamethoxazole may cause sulfa crystalluria, especially during low urine output states.
Interstitial nephritis and tubular necrosis may be due to hypersensitivity.
The propylene glycol vehicle in intravenous sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim and lorazepam has also been implicated in the development of acute tubular necrosis in a patient.
Hyperkalemia has occurred with both standard and high-dose therapy.
Reported cases have resolved upon discontinuation of the drug, although a few have required treatment with sodium polystyrene sulfonate.
Up to  of patients with AIDS who are given sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim for Pneumocystis pneumonia develop mild hyperkalemia.
Sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim may interfere with creatinine determinations by the Jaffe alkaline picrate assay, resulting in overestimations of normal values.
Hypersensitivity reactions of the respiratory tract associated with sulfonamides have included cough, shortness of breath, and pulmonary infiltrates.
Frequency not reported: Cough, shortness of breath, pulmonary infiltrates
It is possible that some side effects of sulfamethoxazole / trimethoprim may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
intravenous solution
Abdominal or stomach pain
black, tarry stools
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
changes in skin color
chest pain
chills
cough or hoarseness
dark urine
diarrhea
dizziness
fever with or without chills
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
headache
itching
joint or muscle pain
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
nausea
pain, tenderness, or swelling of the foot or leg
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
rash
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
swollen or painful glands
tightness in the chest
unpleasant breath odor
unusual bleeding or bruising
vomiting of blood
wheezing
yellow eyes or skin
Abdominal or stomach tenderness
back, leg, or stomach pains
bleeding gums
blindness or vision changes
blisters, hives, or itching
bloating
blood in the urine or stools
bluish-colored lips, fingernails, or palms
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, painful, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
burning of the face or mouth
chest pain
cloudy urine
confusion
constipation
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
convulsions
cracks in the skin
decreased frequency or amount of urine
diarrhea, watery and severe, which may also be bloody
difficulty with breathing
difficulty with swallowing
fainting spells
general body swelling
general feeling of discomfort or illness
hair loss
hearing loss
hives
increased thirst
indigestion
irregular heartbeat
large, flat, blue, or purplish patches in the skin
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of heat from the body
muscle or joint pain
nosebleeds
not able to pass urine
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
pain or burning while urinating
pinpoint red spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
raised red swellings on the skin, the buttocks, legs, or ankles
redness of the white part of the eyes
redness, swelling, or soreness of the tongue
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
soreness of the muscles
stiff neck or back
swelling of the face, hands, legs, and feet
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination
unusual weight loss
weakness in the hands or feet
weakness or heaviness of the legs
weight gain
Passing of gas
Discouragement
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
feeling sad or empty
increased sensitivity of the skin to sunlight
irritability
lack of feeling or emotion
loss of interest or pleasure
nervousness
redness or other discoloration of the skin
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
sensation of spinning
severe sunburn
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
uncaring
weight loss