Common side effects of Synjardy include: lactic acidosis, urinary tract infection, and neuropathy.
Other side effects include: vulvovaginal candidiasis, bacterial vaginosis, cervicitis, genital candidiasis, genitourinary infection, vaginal infection, vulvitis, vulvovaginitis, and increased ldl cholesterol.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, empagliflozin / metformin may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking empagliflozin / metformin, check with your doctor immediately:
Some empagliflozin / metformin side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Empagliflozin: The most frequently reported side effects included urinary tract infections and female genital mycotic infections.
Metformin: The most frequently reported side effects included diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, indigestion, asthenia, and headache.
Empagliflozin is known to cause osmotic diuresis, leading to intravascular volume contraction and adverse reactions related to volume depletion.
Adverse reactions related to volume depletion such as decreased ambulatory/systolic blood pressure, dehydration, hypotension, hypovolemia, orthostatic hypotension, and syncope were reported in  and  of patients receiving empagliflozin  mg (n=) or  mg (n=) orally once a day, respectively.
Empagliflozin:Uncommon ( to ): Hypotension, orthostatic hypotension, syncope, decreased systolic blood pressure, decreased ambulatory blood pressure
Empagliflozin-Metformin:Common ( to ): Urinary tract infectionsEmpagliflozin:Common ( to ): Urinary tract infections, female genital mycotic infections, male genital mycotic infections, increased urination (, polyuria, pollakiuria, and nocturia)Uncommon ( to ): DysuriaRare (less than ): PhimosisPostmarketing reports: Urosepsis, pyelonephritis
During a  week study of empagliflozin in combination with metformin plus a sulfonylurea, urinary tract infections (UTIs) were reported in  and  of patients receiving empagliflozin  mg (n=) or  mg (n=) once a day, respectively.
Pooled data from  studies showed the incidence of UTIs (, UTI, asymptomatic bacteriuria, and cystitis), was increased in empagliflozin-treated patients compared to placebo, more frequent in females compared to males, and more likely to occur in patients with a history of chronic or recurrent UTIs.
Treatment discontinuation due to UTIs occurred in  and  of patients receiving empagliflozin  mg or  mg once a day, respectively.
The frequency of hypoglycemia depended on the type of background therapy used.
When empagliflozin was used as monotherapy, hypoglycemia was reported in  of patients taking the  mg and  mg doses.
In combination with metformin, hypoglycemia was reported in  taking  mg and  taking  mg.
In combination with metformin and a sulfonylurea, hypoglycemia was reported in  taking the  mg dose and  taking the  mg dose.
In combination with basal insulin, hypoglycemia was reported in  taking the  mg dose and  taking the  mg dose.
Twenty reports of acidosis, including diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA), ketoacidosis, or ketosis in patients treated with SGLT- inhibitors have been identified in the US Food and Drug Administration Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) database during the period March  through  June   All patients required emergency room treatment or hospitalization.
These cases were not typical of ketoacidosis or DKA in that they occurred in patients with type  diabetes and their blood sugar levels were only slightly increased.
Some factors identified as potentially triggering the acidosis included major illness, reduced food and fluid intake, and reduced insulin dose.
Empagliflozin-Metformin:Very common ( or more): Hypoglycemia Empagliflozin:Common ( to ): Dyslipidemia, polydipsia, increased LDL-CUncommon ( to ): Dehydration, hypovolemia, hypoglycemiaFrequency not reported: Increased serum creatininePostmarketing reports: Acidosis including diabetic ketoacidosis, ketoacidosis, or ketosisMetformin:Very rare (less than ): Lactic acidosis
Empagliflozin-Metformin:Common ( to ): PruritusMetformin:Very rare (less than ): Erythema, urticaria
Empagliflozin:Common ( to ): NauseaMetformin:Common ( to ): Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, indigestion
Empagliflozin:Common ( to ): Increased hematocritMetformin: Common ( to ): Subnormal vitamin B levelsPostmarketing reports: Hematologic reactions possibly related to subnormal Vitamin B levels
Metformin:Very rare (less than ): Hepatitis, abnormal liver function tests
Empagliflozin:Common ( to ): Arthralgia
Metformin:Common ( to ): Headache, taste disturbancesPostmarketing reports: Neurologic reactions possibly related to subnormal Vitamin B levels
Postmarketing reports of acute kidney injury, some requiring hospitalization and dialysis, have been received for patients treated with SGLT inhibitors including empagliflozin.
Some reports involved patients younger than  years old.
Empagliflozin:Frequency not reported: Decreased eGFRPostmarketing reports: Acute Kidney Injury
Empagliflozin-Metformin:Common ( to ): NasopharyngitisEmpagliflozin:Common ( to ): Upper respiratory tract infection
Metformin:Common ( to ): Asthenia
It is possible that some side effects of Synjardy may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal or stomach discomfort
bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
blurred vision
chills
coma
confusion
cool, pale skin
decreased appetite
depression
difficult, burning, or painful urination
dizziness
fast heartbeat
fast, shallow breathing
frequent urge to urinate
general feeling of discomfort
headache
increased hunger
lower back or side pain
muscle pain or cramping
nausea
nightmares
seizures
shakiness
shortness of breath
sleepiness
slurred speech
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bad-smelling discharge from the penis
itching of the vagina or genitals
itching, stinging, or redness of the vaginal area
redness, itching, swelling, or pain of the penis
thick, white vaginal discharge with mild or no odor
Blurred vision
dark-colored urine
decreased frequency or amount of urine
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
dry mouth
flushed, dry skin
fruit-like breath odor
increased thirst
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
loss of consciousness
stomach pain, continuing
swelling of the face, fingers, or lower legs
unexplained weight loss
vomiting
weight gain
yellow eyes or skin
Diarrhea
flatulence
indigestion
stomach discomfort