Common side effects of Tafinlar include: squamous cell carcinoma, fever, and hyperglycemia.
Other side effects include: keratoacanthoma.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, dabrafenib (the active ingredient contained in Tafinlar) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking dabrafenib, check with your doctor immediately:
Some dabrafenib side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most frequently reported side effects included hyperkeratosis, headache, pyrexia, arthralgia, papilloma, alopecia, and palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome (PPES).
The most common side effect resulting in dose reduction were pyrexia , PPES , chills , fatigue , and headache .
Very common ( or more): Papilloma Common ( to ): Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma 
Very common ( or more): Hyperkeratosis , alopecia , palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome , rash 
Very common ( or more): Constipation Frequency not reported: Pancreatitis
Very common ( or more): Pyrexia Common ( to ): Serious febrile drug reactions 
Frequency not reported: Hypersensitivity manifesting as bullous rash
Very common ( or more): Hyperglycemia , hypophosphatemia , increased alkaline phosphatase Common ( to ): Hyponatremia 
Very common ( or more): Arthralgia , back pain , myalgia 
Very common ( or more): Headache 
Common ( to ): Uveitis 
Frequency not reported: Interstitial nephritis
Very common ( or more): Cough , nasopharyngitis 
It is possible that some side effects of Tafinlar may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal or stomach pain
bloody or cloudy urine
blurred vision
dry mouth
fever
flushed, dry skin
fruit-like breath odor
greatly decreased frequency of urination or amount of urine
increased hunger
increased thirst
increased urination
lump or growth on the skin
nausea
redness, swelling, or pain of the skin
scaling of the skin on the hands and feet
skin blisters
skin rash
sweating
swelling of the feet or lower legs
tingling of the hands and feet
troubled breathing
ulceration of the skin
unexplained weight loss
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Blurred vision or other change in vision
change in color vision
difficulty seeing at night
eye pain
increased sensitivity of the eyes to sunlight
redness of the eye
tearing
Back pain
constipation
cough
darkened urine
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
difficulty with moving
fast heartbeat
hair loss or thinning of the hair
headache
indigestion
loss of appetite
muscle aches
muscle pain or stiffness
pain in the joints
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
yellow eyes or skin