Common side effects of Tagrisso include: cough.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, osimertinib (the active ingredient contained in Tagrisso) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking osimertinib, check with your doctor immediately:
Some osimertinib side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
-The most common (more than ) adverse reactions were lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, anemia, diarrhea, rash, neutropenia, and dry skin.
- or less of patients developed fatal adverse reactions of interstitial lung disease (ILD)/pneumonitis, pneumonia, and cerebrovascular accident (CVA)/cerebral hemorrhage.
Very common ( or more): Lymphopenia , thrombocytopenia , anemia , neutropenia 
Very common ( or more): Diarrhea , nausea , decreased appetite , constipation , stomatitis 
Very common ( or more): Rash , dry skin , nail toxicity , pruritus 
-Rash cases included various types of rash (generalized, erythematous, macular, maculo-papular, papular, pustular), erythema, folliculitis, acne, dermatitis, and acneform dermatitis.
-Dry skin included eczema, skin fissures, and xerosis.
-Nail toxicity included nail and nail bed disorders, nail bed inflammation, nail bed tenderness, nail discoloration, nail dystrophy, nail infection, nail ridging, onychoclasis, onycholysis, onychomadesis, and paronychia.
Very common ( or more): Hyponatremia , hypermagnesemia 
Eye disorders included dry eye, blurred vision, keratitis, cataract, eye irritation, blepharitis, eye pain, increased lacrimation, and vitreous floaters.
Very common ( or more): Eye disorders Uncommon ( to ): Other ocular toxicities
Very common ( or more): Cough Common ( to ): ILD/pneumonitis, pneumonia
Venous thromboembolism included cases of deep vein thrombosis, jugular venous thrombosis, and pulmonary embolism.
Very common ( or more): Fatigue Common ( to ): Venous thromboembolism
Very common ( or more): Back pain 
Very common ( or more): Headache Common ( to ): CVA/cerebral hemorrhage
Common ( to ): CardiomyopathyFrequency not reported: QTc interval prolongation
It is possible that some side effects of Tagrisso may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Anxiety
cough
dizziness, lightheadedness, or fainting
eye or vision changes
fast, pounding, or uneven heartbeat
pain in the chest, groin, or legs, especially the calves
pain, redness, or swelling in the arm or leg
shortness of breath or troubled breathing
slurred speech
sudden loss of coordination
sudden, severe headache
sudden, severe weakness or numbness in the arm or leg
Blurred vision
fever or chills
general feeling of discomfort or illness
inability to speak
seizures
sneezing
sore throat
sudden, severe weakness on one side of the body
temporary blindness
thickening of bronchial secretions
Back pain
changes in the fingernails or toenails, including brittleness, inflammation, pain, redness, tenderness, separation from nail bed, or shedding of nails
constipation
decreased appetite
diarrhea
headache
nausea
skin rash, dryness, or itching
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
unusual tiredness or weakness