As well as its needed effects, talimogene laherparepvec may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some talimogene laherparepvec side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
-The most commonly reported ( or more) adverse drug reactions were fatigue, chills, pyrexia, nausea, influenza-like illness, and injection site pain.
-Pyrexia, chills, and influenza-like illness can occur at any time during treatment, but were more frequent during the first  months.
-Most adverse reactions were mild or moderate in severity and generally resolved within  hours.
-Cellulitis was the most common grade  or higher adverse reaction.
Very common ( or more): Fatigue , chills , pyrexia , influenza-like illness , injection site pain Common ( to ): Decreased weight Frequency not reported: Herpetic infection, injection site complications (cellulitis, systemic bacterial infection, impaired healing)
Very common ( or more): Nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation Common ( to ): Abdominal painFrequency not reported: Oral herpes
Very common ( or more): Headache Common ( to ): Dizziness
Very common ( or more): Myalgia , arthralgia , extremity pain 
Frequency not reported: Immune-mediated events (glomerulonephritis, vasculitis, pneumonitis, psoriasis, vitiligo)
Frequency not reported: Plasmacytoma
Common ( to ): Oropharyngeal pain
Common ( to ): Decreased weight
It is possible that some side effects of talimogene laherparepvec may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Chills
cough
diarrhea
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
joint pain
loss of appetite
muscle aches and pains
nausea
pain at the injection site
runny nose
shivering
sore throat
sweating
trouble sleeping
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Break in the skin, especially associated with blue-black discoloration, swelling, or drainage of fluid
burning or stinging of the skin
painful cold sores or blisters on the lips, nose, eyes, or genitals
Abdominal or stomach pain
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
difficulty with moving
dizziness
muscle pain or stiffness
pain in the arms or legs
weight loss