Commonly reported side effects of taliglucerase alfa include: arthralgia, back pain, and headache.
Other side effects include: asthenia, chest discomfort, chest pain, fatigue, increased blood pressure, urticaria, erythema, and flushing.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, taliglucerase alfa may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking taliglucerase alfa, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some taliglucerase alfa side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most frequently reported side effects were headache, arthralgia, pain in extremity, fatigue, nausea, dizziness, pruritus, flushing, abdominal pain, vomiting, back pain, and rash.
Very common ( or more): Vomiting, abdominal painCommon ( to ): Nausea, diarrheaFrequency not reported: Gastrointestinal inflammation
In clinical trials, hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylaxis) were reported in  of patients; these reactions occurred up to  hours after the start of infusion.
Serious hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylaxis) were reported in some patients.
In clinical trials,  of patients had signs/symptoms consistent with anaphylaxis; these reactions occurred during the infusion.
Very common ( or more): Hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylaxis; )Frequency not reported: Type III immune-mediated fixed drug eruptionPostmarketing reports: Anaphylaxis
Very common ( or more): Arthralgia (up to ), pain in extremity (up to )Common ( to ): Back pain, bone painFrequency not reported: Muscle spasms
Very common ( or more): Development of anti-drug antibodies (up to ), neutralizing antibodies detected 
Very common ( or more): Headache (up to )Common ( to ): Dizziness, paresthesiaFrequency not reported: Tremor
Common ( to ): Fatigue, flushing, peripheral edema, infusion reaction, weight increasedFrequency not reported: Chest discomfort, feeling hot
Infusion-related reactions occurred most often within  hours of the infusion and consisted of arthralgia, headache, vomiting, flushing, pruritus, pain in extremity, pulmonary hypertension, diarrhea, chest discomfort, feeling hot, muscle spasms, tremor, throat irritation, erythema, and rash.
Common ( to ): Pruritus, erythema, rash, urticaria
Common ( to ): Throat irritation, rhinorrhea, sneezingFrequency not reported: Pulmonary hypertension
Common (to ): ALT increased
Common ( to ): Infusion site pain
Common ( to ): Eye pruritus, eye swelling, lacrimation increased
It is possible that some side effects of taliglucerase alfa may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Chest tightness
dizziness
feeling of warmth
hives or welts, itching, or skin rash
irritation in the throat
large, hive-like swelling on face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
nausea or vomiting
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
redness of the skin
Blurred vision
confusion
cough
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fast heartbeat
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness
Abdominal or stomach pain
difficulty with moving
feeling of warmth
headache
muscle pain or stiffness
pain in the joints
Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site