As well as its needed effects, pentazocine (the active ingredient contained in Talwin) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some pentazocine side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Nervous system side effects including sweating, dizziness, lightheadedness, hallucinations, sedation, euphoria, headache, confusion, and disorientation have been reported.
Weakness, flushing, disturbed dreams, insomnia, and syncope have been reported infrequently.
Tremor, chills, paresthesia, irritability, and excitement have been reported rarely.
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea and vomiting have been reported.
Constipation has been reported infrequently.
Abdominal distress, anorexia, and diarrhea have been reported rarely.
Depression of the white blood cell count is usually reversible.
Hematologic side effects including depression of the white blood cell count (especially granulocytes) and moderate transient eosinophilia have been reported.
Hypersensitivity reactions including rash have been reported infrequently.
Urticaria and edema of the face have been reported rarely.
One instance of an apparent anaphylactic reaction has been reported.
Dermatologic side effects including erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported rarely.
Cardiovascular side effects including a decrease in blood pressure and tachycardia have been reported infrequently.
Respiratory side effects including respiratory depression have rarely been reported.
Other side effects including tinnitus have been reported.
Ocular side effects including visual blurring and focusing difficulty have been reported infrequently.
Psychiatric side effects including depression have been reported infrequently.
Genitourinary side effects including urinary retention have rarely been reported.
It is possible that some side effects of Talwin may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Black, tarry stools
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
chest pain
chills
cough
diarrhea
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
fever
itching
joint or muscle pain
painful or difficult urination
red, irritated eyes
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swelling or puffiness of the face
swollen glands
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Blistering, crusting, irritation, itching, or reddening of the skin
blue-green to black skin discoloration
bluish lips or skin
blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
cold, clammy skin
confusion
cough
cracked, dry, or scaly skin
decrease in frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
depression
difficult or troubled breathing
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
dizziness
fainting
fast or slow heartbeat
fast, weak pulse
flushed skin
hardening or thickening of the skin
headache
increased sweating
irregular, fast, slow, or shallow breathing
lightheadedness
nervousness
pain, redness, or sloughing of the skin at the injection site
pale or blue lips, fingernails, or skin
pounding in the ears
rapid breathing
small lumps under the skin at the injection site
stinging at the injection site
sweating
swelling of the lower legs or arms
tightness in the chest
very slow breathing
weight gain
wheezing
False or unusual sense of well-being
nausea
vomiting
Change in taste
confusion about identity, place, and time
constricted, pinpoint, or small pupils (black part of the eye)
double vision
seeing double seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
sleeplessness
stomach cramps
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep uncontrolled eye movements
Continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
difficulty in focusing the eyes
disturbed dreams
drowsiness
dry mouth
excitement
hearing loss
irritability
relaxed and calm
sleepiness
sleeplessness
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep
weakness