More frequent side effects include: cardiac arrest.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, flecainide (the active ingredient contained in Tambocor) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some flecainide side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial (CAST) revealed significantly higher mortality associated with flecainide (the active ingredient contained in Tambocor) in patients with a recent history (more than six days but less than two years prior to study) of myocardial infarction (MI) and non-life-threatening ventricular ectopy relative to placebo ( versus ).
The risk of death relative to placebo in patients with a recent history of Q-wave MI and non-Q-wave MI is  and , respectively.
Use of flecainide in this context is potentially harmful.
Side effects are more likely when plasma flecainide concentrations are greater than  mcg/mL.
Risk factors for a proarrhythmic effect include underlying congenital or structural heart disease.
A case of "pseudoinfarction" has been reported in which flecainide (the active ingredient contained in Tambocor) induced a transient right bundle branch block with a focal block in the septal fibers of the left bundle branch system.
An electrocardiogram (ECG) also revealed ST segment elevations and a Q-wave pattern, consistent with septal infarction.
The patient did not have a myocardial infarction by enzyme studies, and the ECG abnormalities resolved after discontinuation of flecainide.
One patient with a history of ischemic congestive heart failure, myocardial infarction (MI), and ventricular arrhythmias developed profound cardiogenic shock without evidence of MI or a new or worsened ventricular arrhythmia.
The associated serum flecainide concentration was  mcg/mL.
Cardiovascular side effects including arrhythmias are the most serious side effects.
Flecainide may cause or exacerbate arrhythmias in  of patients with preexisting paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia and in   of patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
Flecainide may also exacerbate arrhythmias in  to  of patients with preexisting sustained or nonsustained ventricular arrhythmias.
Flecainide-induced arrhythmias include sinus bradycardia or arrest in , bundle branch blocks in , increased premature ventricular depolarizations in , ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation in , and sudden death in  of patients.
New ventricular arrhythmias have been reported in  of patients.
Flecainide may cause prolongation of the PR, QRS, and corrected QT intervals.
Most of the QT interval prolongation is attributable to widening of the QRS complex rather than prolongation of the JT interval.
Rare cases of torsades de pointes have been reported.
Exacerbation of congestive heart failure is rare and only occurs in about  and  of patients with preexisting supraventricular arrhythmias and ventricular arrhythmias, respectively.
Hypotension is almost exclusively associated with intravenous administration of flecainide.
Flecainide may exacerbate myasthenia gravis.
At least  cases of flecainide-induced peripheral neuropathy (sensory loss) have been reported and it appears to develop after prolonged use (  to  years).
Following discontinuation of flecainide (the active ingredient contained in Tambocor) therapy, symptoms (, lower-extremity weakness and/or paresthesias, gait disturbance) resolved over  to  months.
However, in some cases the neuropathy did not resolve after discontinuation of flecainide.
Nervous system side effects, such as dizziness and visual disturbances (including blurred vision, decreased acuity, and scotomata) occur in  to  of patients who are taking flecainide doses of  mg per day.
Transient headaches, asthenia, feelings of a thick tongue or lips, fatigue, paresthesias, and tremors have been reported in  to  of patients.
Gastrointestinal side effects include abdominal pain, nausea, and constipation in  to  of patients.
Diarrhea occurs rarely.
Musculoskeletal side effects including weakness has been reported and may be more likely in patients with underlying muscular disorders.
A -year-old woman with atrial fibrillation, mitral valve prolapse, and a congenital muscle fiber disproportion myopathy developed muscle weakness which partially resolved after flecainide dosage reduction and completely resolved after substitution of flecainide with other antiarrhythmic agents.
High performance liquid chromatographic analysis of excised corneal deposits in one patient revealed opacities with the same chromatographic characteristics of flecainide (the active ingredient contained in Tambocor) 
Ocular side effects are limited to rare cases of corneal deposits.
Genitourinary side effects including complaints of impotence are reported in  of patients.
A case of urinary retention associated with flecainide (the active ingredient contained in Tambocor) has been reported.
Class I antiarrhythmic agents such as flecainide have local anesthetic and anticholinergic properties which may rarely cause urinary retention.
A case of reversible flecainide-induced pneumonitis was reported in a -year-old man with a remote history of pulmonary tuberculosis.
A complete infectious disease work-up was negative.
Serial bronchial-alveolar lavages and chest radiographs were consistent with a drug-induced process.
Respiratory side effects are extremely rare.
One patient developed leukopenia after  months of flecainide (the active ingredient contained in Tambocor) therapy.
The leukopenia resolved after drug discontinuation and did not recur when flecainide was reinstituted.
The leukopenia may have been due to a concurrent viral infection.
Hematologic side effects are extremely rare.
Hepatic side effects including enzyme concentration elevations have been reported in rare cases.
Psychiatric side effects including paranoid psychosis was reported in a -year-old patient receiving flecainide (the active ingredient contained in Tambocor) for the treatment of malignant neuropathic pain.
It is possible that some side effects of Tambocor may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Difficult or labored breathing
dizziness, fainting, or lightheadedness
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
shortness of breath
tightness in the chest
wheezing
Burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chest pain
fainting
feeling of warmth
fever
increased sweating
partial or slight paralysis
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
shakiness and unsteady walk
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
swelling of the feet or lower legs
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination
Arm, back, or jaw pain
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
blurred vision
chest discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
chills
confusion
convulsions
cough
decrease in the frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
difficulty with breathing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
frequent urination
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
increased volume of pale, dilute urine
nausea
nervousness
noisy breathing
painful or difficult urination
pinpoint red spots on the skin
pounding in the ears
sensation of pins and needles
slow or fast heartbeat
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stabbing pain
sweating
swollen glands
thickening of bronchial secretions
troubled breathing
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
yellow eyes or skin
Blurred vision or seeing spots
Abdominal or stomach pain
acid or sour stomach
anxiety or mental depression
belching
constipation
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
depression
diarrhea
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
general feeling of discomfort or illness
hearing loss
heartburn
indigestion
lack or loss of strength
loss of appetite
sensation of spinning
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sleeplessness
skin rash
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
trouble with sleeping
unable to sleep
weight loss
Bloated
change in color vision
change in taste
cracks in the skin
decreased awareness or responsiveness
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
difficulty seeing at night
difficulty with moving
dry mouth
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
eye pain  or irritation
false or unusual sense of well-being
feeling of unreality
full feeling
hair loss or thinning of the hair
hives or welts
inability to have or keep an erection
increased sensitivity of the eyes to sunlight
itching skin
joint pain
lack of feeling or emotion
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
loss of heat from the body
loss of memory
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pain or stiffness
passing gas
problems with memory
red, swollen skin
scaly skin
sense of detachment from self or body
severe sleepiness
swollen joints
swollen lips, mouth, or tongue
uncaring uncontrolled eye movements