Commonly reported side effects of tamoxifen include: amenorrhea, fluid retention, hot flash, nausea, vaginal discharge, vaginal hemorrhage, weight loss, and skin changes.
Other side effects include: infection, sepsis, alopecia, constipation, cough, diarrhea, edema, increased serum aspartate aminotransferase, menstrual disease, oligomenorrhea, ostealgia, vomiting, and weight gain.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Because of the way this medicine acts on the body, there is a chance that it might cause unwanted effects that may not occur until months or years after the medicine is used.
Tamoxifen increases the chance of cancer of the uterus (womb) in some women taking it.
Tamoxifen may cause blockages to form in a vein, lung, or brain.
In women, tamoxifen may cause cancer or other problems of the uterus (womb).
It also causes liver cancer in rats.
In addition, tamoxifen has been reported to cause cataracts and other eye problems.
Discuss these possible effects with your doctor.
As well as its needed effects, tamoxifen may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking tamoxifen, check with your doctor immediately:
Some tamoxifen side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
In general, hot flashes, nausea, and vomiting have been the most commonly reported adverse effects, occurring in up to  of patients.
Oncologic side effects including numerous endometrial abnormalities have been reported with tamoxifen use.
These have included both endometrial adenocarcinoma (incidence rate per , women-years of  for tamoxifen versus  for placebo) and uterine sarcoma (incidence rate per , women-years of  for tamoxifen versus  for placebo).
In most women treated with tamoxifen, the endometrium remains atrophic.
However, hyperplasia, metaplasia, atypical hyperplasia, and endometrial polyps have also been reported.
The National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Cancer (NSABP) B- trial evaluated the incidence of endometrial cancer in women with node-negative, estrogen receptor-positive, invasive breast cancer randomized to receive either placebo or tamoxifen  mg per day for five years after undergoing primary therapy.
Compared with the placebo group, the relative risk of endometrial cancer among tamoxifen-treated women was .
In general, patients should be examined for preexisting endometrial lesions prior to starting tamoxifen therapy.
The benefits and timing of routine endometrial screening, after initial scrounge, have yet to be defined.
However, any postmenopausal bleeding or abnormal bleeding in premenopausal women should prompt a gynecological evaluation.
Genitourinary side effects including endometriosis, vaginal bleeding, vaginal discharge, amenorrhea, altered menses, and oligomenorrhea have been reported in up to  of patients.
However, these effects have rarely necessitated dosage reduction or drug withdrawal.
Recurrent vulvovaginal candidiasis in postmenopausal women has been associated with long term treatment.
Priapism and suppression of spermatogenesis have been reported in male patients treated with tamoxifen.
Musculoskeletal side effects including pain and bone pain or bone "flare" have been reported in some patients following onset of tamoxifen therapy and generally subside rapidly.
Severe hypercalcemia or pancytopenia may occur in conjunction with these symptoms.
In addition, patients with soft tissue disease may experience an initial increase in lesion size as well as local erythema during initiation of therapy.
Other rheumatologic side effects have included a report of an acute, symmetrical inflammatory polyarthropathy.
Metabolic side effects have included severe hypercalcemia.
Severe hypertriglyceridemia has been reported in one patient.
The drug has been shown to inhibit bone turnover in women over  years old.
Life-threatening hypercalcemia may occur during initial therapy with tamoxifen in patients with bone metastases.
Monitoring of serum calcium levels during early therapy is recommended for patients in whom bone metastases are present or are suspected.
In cases of severe hypercalcemia, discontinuation of tamoxifen may be warranted, with reinstitution at a lower dose once calcium levels have normalized.
Bone mineral density studies have failed to find evidence of increased risk of osteoporosis in women treated with tamoxifen.
One study noted a significant reduction in serum osteocalcin and alkaline phosphatase, indicating that tamoxifen may actually decrease the rate of trabecular bone resorption.
Hepatic side effects have included elevation in liver function tests, jaundice, peliosis hepatitis, steatohepatitis, cholestasis, and massive hepatic necrosis.
While severe hepatic effects are rare, fatalities have been reported.
Hematologic side effects have been uncommon and have included thrombocytopenia , leukopenia, and agranulocytosis.
Two cases of cerebral sinus thrombosis have also been reported.
Small, but clinically insignificant, decreases in antithrombin III and fibrinogen have been reported.
A prospective study involving  patients evaluated the risk of ocular toxicity due to tamoxifen  mg daily for a mean duration of  months (range:  to  months).
Ocular toxicity, characterized by decreased visual acuity and retinopathy, occurred in   patients.
Irreversible subepithelial corneal opacities were noted in one patient.
Earlier reports suggested ocular toxicity was only associated with high-dose (> mg per day) therapy.
However, this study and other recent case reports support a risk with currently accepted dosage regimens.
Ocular side effects including bilateral optic neuritis, retinopathy, and subepithelial opacities have been reported.
Several cases of keratopathy have also been reported.
Several studies evaluating the effect of tamoxifen on antithrombin III, fibrinogen, and platelets have been unable to provide clarification of thromboembolic risk in tamoxifen treated patients.
In addition, despite its antiestrogenic activity, evidence is lacking to support a tamoxifen-associated increase in cardiovascular risk.
One study concluded that tamoxifen and prior surgery, fracture, or immobilization were associated with a significantly increased risk of developing a venous thromboembolism.
Another study found a decreased risk of myocardial infarction.
In one study of  premenopausal and  postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer, tamoxifen  mg three times daily produced no effect on total cholesterol, triglycerides, or free fatty acids.
A significant increase in HDL and subsequent increase in HDL/total cholesterol ratio were noted in addition to a significant reduction in LDL cholesterol.
Overall, tamoxifen appeared to exert a favorable effect on the lipid profile.
One five year study has reported total serum cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and lipoprotein to be significantly lower and apolipoprotein A levels significantly higher in  tamoxifen recipients compared with the  patients who did not receive tamoxifen.
Apolipoprotein B levels were reported to have increased to a greater extent in the group which did not receive tamoxifen.
After five years, fibrinogen level decreases and triglyceride level increases in the tamoxifen group were of borderline statistical significance.
In general, the favorable changes in the lipid, lipoprotein, and fibrinogen levels seen early in tamoxifen therapy in postmenopausal women were reported to have continued to be seen five years into the treatment regimen.
Cardiovascular side effects including stroke (incidence rate per , women years was  for tamoxifen versus  for placebo) have been reported.
Hot flushes (which may be severe in up to  of patients), edema , phlebitis , and thromboembolism have also been reported.
Respiratory side effects including pulmonary embolism (incidence rate per , women-years was  for tamoxifen versus  for placebo) have been reported.
Cough as well as a case of exacerbation of asthma have also been reported.
Endocrine side effects have included elevations in T in the absence of clinical hyperthyroidism.
This may be due to tamoxifen-induced elevations in circulating thyroid binding globulin.
In addition, tamoxifen suppresses prolactin release in response to breast stimulation in puerperal women.
Up to  of male breast cancer patients may experience a decrease in libido when treated with tamoxifen.
Psychiatric side effects including depression and delusional syndromes have been reported rarely.
Immunologic side effects have included a case report of purpuric vasculitis.
Rechallenge with tamoxifen resulted in reappearance of lesions.
Other side effects have included radiation recall and anorexia.
Tamoxifen-induced anorexia has been associated with fatty acid synthase inhibition in the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus and accumulation of malonyl-CoA.
Dermatologic side effects including four cases of hair loss have been reported.
One of those cases involved tamoxifen-induced total alopecia.
A case of repigmentation following graying of the hair in a -year-old patient has also been reported.
One study has reported that when compared to healthy controls who were not using the drug, tamoxifen users exhibited significantly worse performance on visual memory, word fluency, immediate verbal memory, visuo-spatial ability, and processing speed tasks.
Nervous system side effects including adverse cognitive effects have been reported.
It is possible that some side effects of tamoxifen may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Anxiety
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin and mucous membranes
blurred vision
cataracts in the eyes or other eye problems
change in vaginal discharge
chest pain
chills
confusion
cough
dizziness
fainting
fast heartbeat
fever
hoarseness
lightheadedness
lower back or side pain
pain or feeling of pressure in the pelvis
pain or swelling in the legs
pain, redness, or swelling in your arm or leg
painful or difficult urination
rapid shallow breathing
shortness of breath or trouble with breathing
skin rash or itching over the entire body
sweating
weakness or sleepiness
wheezing
vaginal bleeding
yellow eyes or skin
Bloating
constipation
darkened urine
diarrhea
difficulty with breathing
indigestion
itching
joint or muscle pain
large, hard skin blisters
large hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, and sex organs
loss of appetite
nausea
pain in the stomach or side, possibly radiating to the back
red, irritated eyes
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
sore throat
sores, ulcers or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Absent, missed, or irregular periods
decrease in the amount of urine
feeling of warmth
menstrual changes
noisy, rattling breathing
redness of the face, neck, arms and occasionally, upper chest
skin changes
stopping of menstrual bleeding
swelling of the fingers, hands, feet, or lower legs
troubled breathing at rest
weight gain or loss
white or brownish vaginal discharge
Abdominal or stomach cramps
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
bluish color changes in skin color
bone pain
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
discouragement
feeling sad or empty
hair loss or thinning of the hair
headache
inability to have or keep an erection
irritability
itching in the genital area
loss of interest or pleasure
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
nausea or vomiting (mild)
pain
pinpoint red spots on the skin
skin rash or dryness
stomach or pelvic discomfort, aching, or heaviness
swelling
trouble concentrating
trouble with sleeping
unusual bleeding or bruising