Common side effects of Tanzeum include: injection site reaction, diarrhea, and nausea.
Other side effects include: vomiting.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, albiglutide (the active ingredient contained in Tanzeum) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some albiglutide side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Very common ( or more): Diarrhea , nausea , Common ( to ): Vomiting, gastroesophageal reflux disease, dyspepsia, constipation Uncommon ( to ): Appendicitis, acute pancreatitis, intestinal obstruction
The incidence of pancreatitis (adjudicated as likely to be related to therapy) in clinical trials was  compared with  for placebo and  for comparators (, liraglutide, pioglitazone, glimepiride, sitagliptin, and insulin glargine) with or without background antidiabetic therapy (  metformin) Gastrointestinal events occurred more frequently with this drug compared to comparators ( versus ).
Diarrhea ( vs ), nausea ( vs ), vomiting ( vs ), and constipation ( vs ) were the most commonly reported , and the majority of events occurred within the first  months.
Very common ( or more): Positive test for anti-albiglutide (the active ingredient contained in Tanzeum) antibodies
Very common ( or more): Injection site reaction (up to )Common ( to ): Injection site hematoma, erythema, rash, and/or pruritusUncommon ( to ): Injection site hypersensitivity and/or hemorrhage
Very common ( or more): Hypoglycemia (when used in combination with insulin or sulfonylurea) Common ( to ): Hypoglycemia (when used as monotherapy in combination with metformin or pioglitazone)
Very common ( or more): Back pain , arthralgia 
Very common ( or more): Influenza 
Very common ( or more): Upper respiratory tract infection , cough , sinusitis Common ( to ): Pneumonia
Common ( to ): Atrial fibrillationUncommon ( to ): Atrial flutter
Common ( to ): Increased ALT, gamma glutamyltransferase
Frequency not reported: Pruritus, rash, dyspnea
Frequency not reported: Risk of Thyroid C-cell Tumors
Medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) was diagnosed in  patient receiving this drug and  patient receiving placebo across  phase  clinical trials.
Both of these patients had markedly elevated serum calcitonin levels at baseline.
Frequency not reported: Renal impairment
It is possible that some side effects of Tanzeum may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Bloating
chills or fever
darkened urine
fast heartbeat
loss of appetite
nausea, vomiting, or indigestion
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
Anxiety, irritability, or mood changes
blurred vision
cold sweats
confusion
difficulty with breathing or swallowing
dizziness
headache
increased hunger
shakiness
skin itching, rash, or redness
slurred speech
swelling of the face, throat, or tongue
unusual tiredness or weakness
Body aches or pain
cough
diarrhea
ear congestion
loss of voice
muscle pain or stiffness
pain in the joints
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
skin reactions, warmth, or redness at the injection site
sneezing
stuffy or runny nose