Commonly reported side effects of tazarotene topical include: burning sensation, burning sensation of skin, desquamation, exacerbation of psoriasis, pruritus, skin irritation, stinging of the skin, erythema, localized erythema, skin pain, and xeroderma.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, tazarotene topical may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking tazarotene topical, check with your doctor immediately:
Some tazarotene topical side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Dermatologic side effects associated with Avage(R) topical cream have included desquamation , erythema , burning sensation , dry skin , skin irritation , pruritus , irritant contact dermatitis , stinging , acne , rash , and cheilitis .
Pruritus, erythema, and burning have been reported (in descending order) with Tazorac(R) topical cream in  to  of psoriasis patients.
Desquamation, dry skin, erythema, and burning sensation have been reported (in descending order) with Tazorac(R) topical cream in  to  of acne patients.
Irritation, desquamation, stinging, contact dermatitis, dermatitis, eczema, worsening of psoriasis, skin pain, rash, dry skin, and skin inflammation have been reported (in descending order) with Tazorac(R) topical cream in greater than  to less than  of psoriasis patients.
Pruritus, irritation, face pain, and stinging have been reported with Tazorac(R) topical cream in  to  of acne patients.
Dermatitis (less than ), impetigo (less than ), pruritus (less than ), local skin reactions, dryness, erythema, peeling, burning/stinging, and itching have been reported with tazarotene topical foam.
Pruritus, burning/stinging, erythema, worsening of psoriasis, irritation, and skin pain have been reported (in descending order) with tazarotene topical gel in  to  of psoriasis patients.
Desquamation, burning/stinging, dry skin, erythema, and pruritus have been reported (in descending order) with tazarotene topical gel in  to  of acne patients.
Rash, desquamation, irritant contact dermatitis, skin inflammation, fissuring, bleeding, and dry skin have been reported with tazarotene topical gel in  to  of psoriasis patients.
Irritation, skin pain, fissuring, and skin discoloration have been reported with tazarotene topical gel in  to  of acne patients.
Psoriasis worsening and sun-induced erythema have also been reported with tazarotene topical gel in psoriasis patients.
Blister, rash, skin discoloration (including skin hyperpigmentation or skin hypopigmentation), and pain have been reported during postmarketing experience with tazarotene topical gel.
Local side effects associated with tazarotene topical foam have included application site irritation , application site dryness , application site erythema , application site exfoliation , application site pain , application site photosensitivity (including sunburn; ), application site pruritus , application site dermatitis , and application site reactions (including discoloration, discomfort, edema, rash, and swelling; less than ).
Localized edema has been reported with tazarotene topical gel in  to  of acne patients.
Metabolic side effects associated with Tazorac(R) topical cream have included hypertriglyceridemia (greater than  to less than ).
Other side effects associated with Tazorac(R) topical cream have included peripheral edema (greater than  to less than ).
Ocular side effects associated with Avage(R) topical cream have included edema, irritation, and inflammation directly related to the eye or eyelid.
It is possible that some side effects of tazarotene topical may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Burning or stinging of the skin (severe)
changes in color of the treated skin
deep grooves or lines in the skin
dryness, itching, peeling, or redness of the skin (severe)
pain or swelling of the treated skin
skin rash (in patients with psoriasis only)
Burning or stinging after application
dryness, itching, peeling, or redness of the skin (mild)