Common side effects of Tecfidera include: infection, abdominal pain, and flushing.
Other side effects include: increased serum aspartate aminotransferase, pruritus, skin rash, vomiting, lymphocytopenia, and erythema.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, dimethyl fumarate (the active ingredient contained in Tecfidera) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking dimethyl fumarate, check with your doctor immediately:
Some dimethyl fumarate side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Common ( to ): Lymphopenia, leucopenia, WBC decreasedFrequency not reported: Eosinophilia
Very common ( or more): Ketones in urine, + or greater , ,-dihydroxyvitamin D decreased , (PTH) increased 
The incidence of flushing was highest early in the course of treatment (primarily in month ) and usually decreased over time.
The majority of events were mild to moderate in severity.
Very common ( or more): Flushing ( to )Common ( to ): Hot flush
Common ( to ): Feeling hot
The incidence of gastrointestinal events was highest early in the course of treatment (primarily in month ) and usually decreased over time.
Very common ( or more): Diarrhea , nausea , abdominal pain (upper) , abdominal pain ( to )Common ( to ): Vomiting, dyspepsia, gastritis, gastrointestinal disorder, gastroenteritis
Common ( to ): Pruritus, rash, erythema
Increases in hepatic transaminases (AST and ALT) generally occurred during the first six months of treatment, and most patients had levels less than  times the upper limit of normal (ULN).
Common ( to ): AST increased, ALT increased
Common ( to ): Burning sensation
Uncommon ( to ): Serious flushing
Common ( to ): Proteinuria (albumin)
It is possible that some side effects of Tecfidera may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Cough or hoarseness
feeling of warmth
fever or chills
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
Black, tarry stools
chest pain
shortness of breath
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swollen glands
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Abdominal or stomach pain
diarrhea
itching skin
nausea
rash
vomiting
Acid or sour stomach
belching
heartburn
indigestion
stomach discomfort or upset