More frequently reported side effects include: diarrhea.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, tedizolid may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking tedizolid, check with your doctor immediately:
Some tedizolid side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most common adverse reactions were nausea, headache, diarrhea, vomiting, and dizziness.
Median time to onset was  days.
Common ( to ): Nausea, diarrhea, vomiting
Frequency not reported: palpitations, tachycardia, hypertension
Palpitations, tachycardia, and hypertension were reported at a rate of less than .
Frequency not reported: Dermatitis, flushing, pruritus, urticaria
Dermatitis, flushing, pruritus, and urticaria were reported at a rate of less than .
Anemia and decreased WBC count were reported at a rate of less than .
Decreases in hemoglobin (less than  g/dL in males and less than  g/dL in females) platelet count (less than  x /mm) and absolute neutrophil count (less than  x /mm) were reported in , , and , respectively.
Frequency not reported: Anemia, decreased WBC count
Frequency not reported: Hepatic transaminase elevations
Hepatic transaminase elevations were reported at a rate of less than .
Drug hypersensitivity, Clostridium difficile colitis, oral candidiasis, and vulvovaginal mycotic infection were reported at a rate of less than .
Frequency not reported: Drug hypersensitivity, Clostridium difficile colitis, oral candidiasis, vulvovaginal mycotic infection
Frequency not reported: Infusion-related reactions
Infusion-related reactions were reported at a rate of less than .
Frequency not reported: Hypoesthesia, paresthesia, VIIth nerve paralysis
Hypoesthesia, paresthesia, and VIIth nerve paralysis were reported at a rate of less than .
Frequency not reported: Asthenopia, blurred vision, visual impairment, vitreous floaters
Asthenopia, blurred vision, visual impairment, and vitreous floaters were reported at a rate of less than .
Insomnia was reported at a rate of less than .
Frequency not reported: Insomnia
It is possible that some side effects of tedizolid may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
intravenous powder for solution
Abdominal or stomach tenderness
back pain
blurred vision
chest tightness
chills
dizziness
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
fever
headache
hives or welts, itching, or skin rash
hoarseness
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
nausea and vomiting
nervousness
pale skin
pounding in the ears
redness of the skin
severe abdominal or stomach cramps and pain
slow or fast heartbeat
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, hands, or feet
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing or swallowing
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
watery or severe diarrhea, which may also be bloody
Burning, numbness, tingling, or painful sensations
diarrhea
unsteadiness or awkwardness
weakness in the arms, hands, legs, or feet
Blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
change in vision
feeling of warmth
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
seeing floating spots before the eyes
sore mouth or tongue
trouble sleeping
white patches in the mouth or on the tongue