Common side effects of Teflaro include: positive direct coombs test.
Other side effects include: diarrhea.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, ceftaroline (the active ingredient contained in Teflaro) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking ceftaroline, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some ceftaroline side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most common side effects reported in adults using this drug were diarrhea, headache, nausea, pruritus, and rash.
Common (1% to 10%): Diarrhea, nausea, constipation, vomiting, abdominal painUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Clostridium difficile colitisFrequency not reported: C difficile-associated diarrhea, dyspepsia
Common (1% to 10%): Rash, pruritus, generalized pruritusUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Urticaria
In clinical trials using this drug every 12 hours or every 8 hours, rash was common; however, in a subgroup of Asian patients using this drug every 8 hours, rash was very common (18.
5%).
Common (1% to 10%): HypokalemiaFrequency not reported: Decreased appetite, hyperglycemia, hyperkalemia
Common (1% to 10%): Phlebitis, hypertension, increased blood pressureFrequency not reported: Bradycardia, palpitations
Common (1% to 10%): Increased transaminases, increased ALTFrequency not reported: Abnormal hepatic function, hepatitis, increased AST
Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions have been reported with beta-lactam antibacterials.
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Hypersensitivity (e.
g.
, urticaria, lip and face swelling), anaphylaxis
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Increased blood creatinineFrequency not reported: Renal failure
In clinical trials, direct antiglobulin test seroconversion was reported in 10.
7% of adult patients using this drug every 12 hours (600 mg infused over 1 hour every 12 hours) and in 32.
3% of those using this drug every 8 hours (600 mg infused over 2 hours every 8 hours).
Seroconversion from negative to positive direct Coombs test result was reported in 17.
9% of children using this drug.
Agranulocytosis and leukopenia have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Very common (10% or more): Direct antiglobulin test/Coombs test seroconversion (up to 32.
3%), positive direct Coombs testUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, prolonged prothrombin time, prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time, increased INRRare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): AgranulocytosisFrequency not reported: Eosinophilia
Common (1% to 10%): Headache, dizzinessFrequency not reported: Convulsion
Common (1% to 10%): Pyrexia, infusion site reactions (e.
g.
, erythema, phlebitis, pain)Frequency not reported: Asthenia
Frequency not reported: Urinary tract infection
Common (1% to 10%): Insomnia
It is possible that some side effects of Teflaro may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Back, leg, or stomach pains
bleeding gums
chills
dark urine
difficulty with breathing
fever
general body swelling
headache
loss of appetite
nausea or vomiting
nosebleeds
pale skin
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness
yellowing of the eyes or skin
Abdominal or stomach tenderness
black, tarry stools
blood in the urine or stools
bluish color
changes in skin color
chest pain or discomfort
confusion
convulsions
cough
decreased frequency or amount of urine
diarrhea
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
dry mouth
fast, irregular, pounding, or racing heartbeat or pulse
general tiredness and weakness
hives or itching
increased blood pressure
increased thirst
light-colored stools
lightheadedness, dizziness, or fainting
lower back or side pain
mood changes
muscle pain or cramps
nervousness
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
painful or difficult urination
pinpoint red spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
severe abdominal or stomach cramps and pain
skin itching, rash, or redness
slow or irregular heartbeat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swelling of the face, throat, fingers, or lower legs
swollen glands
tenderness
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
watery and severe diarrhea, which may also be bloody
weakness or heaviness of the legs
weight gain
Blurred vision
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
flushed, dry skin fruit-like breath odor
increased hunger
increased urination
sweating
unexplained weight loss
welts