As well as its needed effects, telaprevir may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking telaprevir, check with your doctor immediately:
Some telaprevir side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Telaprevir must be administered in combination with peginterferon alfa and ribavirin.
The prescribing information for peginterferon alfa and ribavirin should be consulted for associated side effects.
Serious side effects have been reported in  of patients receiving telaprevir combination therapy compared to none of the patients receiving peginterferon alfa and ribavirin alone.
The serious side effects reported most frequently were skin disorders (rash and/or pruritus) and anemia.
Telaprevir was discontinued due to side effects in  of patients.
The side effects leading to discontinuation most often were rash, anemia, fatigue, pruritus, nausea, and vomiting.
Most of the following side effects were reported in patients receiving telaprevir combination therapy with an incidence at least  greater than those receiving peginterferon alfa and ribavirin alone.
Rash developed most often during the first  weeks, but was reported at any time during telaprevir combination therapy.
Rash events led to discontinuation of telaprevir alone and telaprevir combination therapy in  and  of patients, respectively.
Severe rash may have a prominent eczematous component.
Fatal cases have been reported in patients with progressive rash and systemic symptoms who continued telaprevir combination therapy after serious skin reaction was identified.
Presenting signs of DRESS have included rash, fever, facial edema, and evidence of internal organ involvement (, hepatitis, nephritis), with or without eosinophilia.
Presenting signs of SJS have included fever, target lesions, and mucosal erosions or ulcerations (, conjunctivae, lips).
Very common ( or more): Rash (all grades: ), pruritus Common ( to ): Severe rash (, generalized rash or rash with vesicles or bullae or ulcerations other than Stevens-Johnson syndrome; )Uncommon ( to ): Serious skin reactions (including drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms [DRESS], Stevens-Johnson syndrome [SJS]; less than )Frequency not reported: Fatal and nonfatal serious skin reactions (including SJS, DRESS, toxic epidermal necrolysis), dry skinPostmarketing reports: Toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme
The addition of telaprevir to peginterferon alfa and ribavirin was associated with a further decrease in hemoglobin levels.
Decreased hemoglobin levels occurred during the first  weeks of therapy and the lowest values were reached at the end of telaprevir dosing.
After telaprevir dosing was completed, hemoglobin levels gradually increased to levels observed with peginterferon alfa and ribavirin ( g/dL or less: ; less than  g/dL: ).
In clinical trials, time to onset of hemoglobin levels  g/dL or less was earlier with telaprevir combination therapy ( days [range  to  days]) compared to therapy with peginterferon alfa and ribavirin ( days [ to  days]).
In patients receiving telaprevir combination therapy,  had ribavirin dose modification (reduction, interruption, or discontinuation) due to anemia,  received a blood transfusion,  discontinued telaprevir, and  discontinued telaprevir combination therapy.
In patients receiving peginterferon alfa and ribavirin alone,  had ribavirin dose modification due to anemia,  received a blood transfusion, and less than  discontinued therapy.
Anemia requiring ribavirin dose reduction, blood transfusion, and/or erythropoiesis stimulating agent has been reported as early as  days after initiation of telaprevir combination therapy.
Decreased total white blood cell, absolute neutrophil, absolute lymphocyte, and platelet counts have been associated with peginterferon alfa.
Decreased total white cell counts (/mm or less) have been reported in  of patients treated with peginterferon alfa.
Decreased absolute neutrophil counts (/mm or less) have been reported in  of patients treated with peginterferon alfa and ribavirin alone.
Decreased platelet counts have been reported in  (all grades) and  (,/mm or less) of patients treated with peginterferon alfa and ribavirin alone.
Very common ( or more): Anemia , decreased mean platelet counts (all grades: ), decreased hemoglobin levels ( g/dL or less: ; less than  g/dL: ), decreased lymphocyte counts (/mm or less: ), decreased absolute neutrophil counts (/mm or less: )Common ( to ): Decreased total white cell counts (/mm or less: ), decreased mean platelet counts (,/mm or less: )
Very common ( or more): Elevated uric acid levels Common ( to ): Uric acid level shifts from baseline to  mg/dL or greater Uncommon ( to ): Gout/gouty arthritis (less than )Frequency not reported: Metabolic and nutrition disorders (unspecified)
Very common ( or more): Nausea , diarrhea , vomiting , hemorrhoids , anorectal discomfort Common ( to ): Anal pruritus Frequency not reported: Rectal burning, anorexia, abdominal discomfort, constipation
Anorectal side effects have been reported in  of patients.
The majority of anorectal side effects (, hemorrhoids, anorectal discomfort, anal pruritus, and rectal burning) were of mild to moderate severity; less than  led to discontinuation of therapy and all resolved during or after completion of telaprevir dosing.
Very common ( or more): Fatigue Frequency not reported: Pyrexia, influenza-like illness, infections and infestations (unspecified)
Bilirubin levels increased most steeply during the first  to  weeks of telaprevir, stabilized, and returned to baseline levels between weeks  and Elevated bilirubin has been reported in  (all grades) and  ( times ULN or greater) of patients treated with peginterferon alfa and ribavirin alone.
Very common ( or more): Elevated bilirubin (all grades: )Common ( to ): Elevated bilirubin ( times ULN or greater: )
Very common ( or more): Dysgeusia Frequency not reported: Headache
Frequency not reported: Depression, insomnia
Frequency not reported: Myalgia, musculoskeletal disorders (unspecified)
Postmarketing reports: Prerenal azotemia (with or without acute renal insufficiency/failure), uric acid nephropathy
Frequency not reported: Ocular events (unspecified)
It is possible that some side effects of telaprevir may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
chills
cough
fever
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
lower back, side, or stomach pain
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
rash
shortness of breath
sore throat
swelling of the feet or lower legs
troubled breathing with exertion
ulcers, sores, or white spots in the mouth
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
cloudy urine
dark urine
diarrhea
difficulty with breathing
drowsiness
general tiredness and weakness
headache
itching
joint or muscle pain
light-colored stools
nausea or vomiting
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
swelling or puffiness of the face
unusual weight gain
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
yellow eyes and skin
Bleeding with stools
uncomfortable swelling around the anus