As well as its needed effects, telbivudine may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some telbivudine side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
In general, telbivudine was usually well tolerated in clinical studies, with most side effects described as mild or moderate and not ascribed to telbivudine.
Discontinuations due to adverse events were reported in  of telbivudine recipients and  of lamivudine recipients.
The most common side effects leading to discontinuation of telbivudine included elevated creatine kinase (CK), nausea, diarrhea, fatigue, myalgia, and myopathy.
Increased CK occurred more frequently during telbivudine treatment during clinical trials.
By  weeks of treatment,  of telbivudine-treated patients and  of lamivudine-treated patients reported Grade  to  CK elevations.
Thirteen percent and  of telbivudine- and lamivudine-treated patients reported Grade  or  CK elevations, respectively.
Most patients with CK elevations did not exhibit symptoms, but the average recovery time was longer in telbivudine-treated patients versus lamivudine-treated patients.
Of the telbivudine-treated patients with Grade  to  CK elevations,  experienced a musculoskeletal side effect compared to  of lamivudine-treated patients.
By  weeks of treatment,  of telbivudine-treated patients reported Grade  or  CK elevations, most of which were asymptomatic , transient ( lasted  or  visits), and resolved spontaneously or returned to baseline levels .
Cases of myopathy/myositis have been reported with telbivudine use several weeks to months following treatment initiation.
Very common ( or more): CK greater than  times ULN , increased CK Common ( to ): Arthralgia , back pain , myalgia Uncommon ( to ): Myopathy/myositis (presenting with muscular weakness; less than )Frequency not reported: Fibromyalgia, muscle strain, chest wall pain, noncardiac chest pain, chest discomfort, flank pain, muscle cramp, musculoskeletal chest pain, musculoskeletal pain, musculoskeletal discomfort, musculoskeletal stiffness, myofascial pain syndrome, neck pain, pain in extremity, tendernessPostmarketing reports: Rhabdomyolysis
Very common ( or more): Fatigue Common ( to ): Pyrexia Frequency not reported: Malaise, vertigo, influenza and influenza-like symptoms, postprocedural pain
Very common ( or more): Headache Common ( to ): Dizziness , insomnia Uncommon ( to ): Peripheral neuropathy (less than )Frequency not reported: Migraine, sinus headache, tension headachePostmarketing reports: Paresthesia, hypoesthesia
Common ( to ): ALT greater than  times baseline , AST (SGOT) greater than  times baseline , ALT greater than  times ULN and  times baseline (i.
e.
, acute hepatitis flare; ), increased ALT , hepatitis B exacerbation Uncommon ( to ): Total bilirubin greater than  times ULN (less than )Frequency not reported: Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, hypercholesterolemia, posttreatment exacerbations of hepatitis
Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis, including fatal cases, have been reported with the use of telbivudine and other nucleoside analogs alone or in combination with other antiretroviral agents.
The incidence of ALT flares (ALT greater than  times ULN and greater than  times baseline) was similar  in the two treatment arms in the first  months.
After week , ALT flares were reduced to  in telbivudine-treated patients versus  in lamivudine-treated patients.
Posttreatment exacerbations of hepatitis have occurred after discontinuation of telbivudine.
Common ( to ): Diarrhea , upper abdominal pain , nausea , abdominal pain , abdominal distension , dyspepsia , lipase greater than  times ULN Uncommon ( to ): Amylase greater than  times ULN (less than )Frequency not reported: Gastritis, sore throat, dry mouth, decreased appetite, abdominal discomfort, lower abdominal pain, gastrointestinal pain
Common ( to ): Cough , pharyngolaryngeal pain Frequency not reported: Upper respiratory tract infection, nasopharyngitis
Common ( to ): Rash , pruritus Frequency not reported: Acne
Common ( to ): Neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count less than or equal to /mm; )Uncommon ( to ): Thrombocytopenia (platelets less than or equal to ,/mm; less than )
Postmarketing reports: Lactic acidosis
At least one patient reporting polyuria was receiving a diuretic for ascites.
Rare (less than ): Polyuria
Frequency not reported: Hematuria, irregular menstruation
It is possible that some side effects of telbivudine may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Chills
cough
diarrhea
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
joint pain
loss of appetite
muscle aches and pains
nausea
runny nose
shivering
sore throat
stomach pain
sweating
trouble with sleeping
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Back pain
chest pain
difficulty with moving
muscle cramping
muscle stiffness
muscle tenderness, wasting, or weakness
pain
pain in the extremity
swollen joints
Burning feeling in the chest or stomach
indigestion
loose stools
stomach upset
tenderness in the stomach area
Burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
dark-colored urine
decreased appetite
fast, shallow breathing
muscle pain or spasms
shortness of breath
sleepiness
Body aches or pain
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
loss of voice
nasal congestion
sneezing
stuffy nose
Acid or sour stomach
belching
dizziness
heartburn
rash
sleeplessness
stomach discomfort
unable to sleep