As well as its needed effects, diphtheria toxoid / tetanus toxoid may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some diphtheria toxoid / tetanus toxoid side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Local side effects have included erythema, tenderness, induration, swelling, redness, warmth, cellulitis, and nodules at the injection site.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included allergic reactions (such as rash, urticaria, pruritus, and face edema) and anaphylactoid reactions.
General side effects have included malaise and temperature elevations, pyrexia, chills, pain, asthenia, fatigue, and peripheral edema.
Nervous system side effects have included headache, paresthesia, dizziness, syncope, and convulsions.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea and vomiting.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included myalgia, arthralgia, pain in extremities, and musculoskeletal stiffness.
It is possible that some side effects of Tenivac (Td) may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chills
convulsions
cough
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fainting
fast heartbeat
hives
itching
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rapid weight gain
shortness of breath
skin rash
swelling or puffiness of the face
swollen, painful, or tender lymph glands in the neck, armpit, or groin
tightness in the chest
tingling of the hands or feet
unusual weight gain or loss
wheezing
Hard lumps, redness, tenderness, or warmth at the injection site
Headache
Difficulty with moving
joint pain
lack or loss of strength
muscle aching or cramping
muscle stiffness
nausea
pain in the arms or legs
swollen joints
vomiting