As well as its needed effects, terconazole topical (the active ingredient contained in Terazol) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some terconazole topical side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Very common ( or more): Headache (up to )Postmarketing reports: Dizziness
Headache was reported in , , and  of patients using the  vaginal cream,  vaginal cream, and vaginal suppositories, respectively.
In clinical trials with the suppository, headache occurred in up to  of patients given placebo.
The suppository formulation was discontinued most often due to burning and pruritus.
Frequency nor reported: Pain, rashVaginal suppositories:-Very common ( or more): Burning -Common ( to ): Pruritus
The cream formulations were discontinued most often due to vulvovaginal itching.
Vaginal cream :-Frequency not reported: Vulvovaginal burning/itching/irritationVaginal cream :-Common ( to ): Dysmenorrhea, genital burning and itching-Frequency not reported: Vulvovaginal itchingVaginal suppositories:-Common ( to ): Pain of the female genitalia
Frequency not reported: Influenza-like illness (consisting of fever, chills, nausea, dizziness)Postmarketing reports: Asthenia, influenza-like illness (consisting of multiple reactions including fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, myalgia, arthralgia, malaise), face edemaVaginal cream -Common ( to ): Body pain, fever-Uncommon ( to ): ChillsVaginal cream -Uncommon ( to ): FeverVaginal suppositories-Common ( to ): Body pain, fever, chills
Vaginal cream :-Common ( to ): Abdominal pain
Postmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity, anaphylaxis
Photosensitivity reactions were reported after repeated dermal application of  and  cream formulations under conditions of filtered artificial ultraviolet light.
During US and foreign clinical trials, photosensitivity reactions were not reported in patients who were treated with the suppositories or vaginal cream ( and ).
Frequency not reported: Photosensitivity reactionsPostmarketing reports: Rash, toxic epidermal necrolysis, urticaria
Frequency not reported: DyspneaPostmarketing reports: Bronchospasm
At least  patient developed leukocytosis and dyspnea.
At least  patient developed leukocytosis and dyspnea.
Frequency not reported: Leukocytosis
It is possible that some side effects of Terazol may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Burning feeling in the vagina
Chills
fever
itching or irritation in the vagina
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
chills
cough
diarrhea
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
hives or welts
hoarseness
irritation
itching
joint or muscle pain
joint pain, stiffness or swelling
loss of appetite
muscle aches and pains
nausea
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rash
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
redness of the skin
runny nose
shivering
skin rash
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
sweating
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, hands, or feet
tightness in the chest
trouble sleeping
troubled breathing
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Cramps
headache
heavy bleeding
pain
Abdominal or stomach pain
body pain
Difficulty with moving
lack or loss of strength
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pain or stiffness
swollen joints