Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, terbutaline may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking terbutaline, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking terbutaline, get emergency help immediately:
Some terbutaline side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Terbutaline has usually been well tolerated and adverse effects seen have been consistent with its pharmacological action.
In general, the severity of these adverse effects have been dependent on dose and the route of administration.
Administration by metered dose inhaler (MDI) has been associated with less systemic effects than administration of higher doses by nebulizer or orally.
Tolerance to the adverse effects of terbutaline has occurred.
Changes in heart rate of approximately 30% may be observed following 5 mg of terbutaline given orally.
Aggravation of angina may be due to the tachycardia induced by terbutaline.
Prolongation of the QT interval occurred in ten healthy males given a bolus injection of 0.
25 mg terbutaline followed by an infusion of 5 mcg/min.
Supraventricular ectopic beats and ventricular tachycardia have also been reported.
Higher dosages of terbutaline should be used with caution in patients with cardiac disease, arrhythmias, or hypertension.
All of these effects are dose-related and lower doses may be tolerated.
In one case-control study a positive association was found between the use of oral terbutaline for longer than 9 days and peripartum cardiomyopathy.
Further study is needed to determine if a causative relationship exists.
Cardiovascular side effects have included palpitations and peripheral vasodilation, commonly resulting in reflex tachycardia.
Changes in blood pressure, both increases and decreases, have been reported.
Higher dosages have rarely aggravated angina and myocardial ischemia or caused atrial or ventricular arrhythmias.
Rarely, peripartum cardiomyopathy has been reported with oral therapy.
Pulmonary edema has occurred in pregnant patients receiving intravenous terbutaline.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included tremors, especially at higher doses.
Tolerance has developed to the tremorogenic effects.
Severe muscle cramping has been rarely reported.
Metabolic side effects have included hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, and less commonly hyperglycemia.
Infusions of terbutaline, 25 mcg/min, in women in premature labor has caused decreases in serum potassium of up to 1.
6 to 2 mEq/L.
Another study in ten healthy males produced a mean decrease in serum potassium of 0.
9 mEq/L following a bolus injection of 0.
25 mg terbutaline, followed by an infusion of 5 mcg/min.
A decrease in magnesium of 0.
08 mmol/L was produced in these same patients.
This fall in potassium is presumably due to an intracellular shift of potassium secondary to hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia.
Nervous system side effects have included headache, restlessness, anxiety, nervousness, irritability, and insomnia.
Other side effects have included the development of tachyphylaxis to the bronchodilating effects of terbutaline.
Although conflicting data exist, the development of complete tolerance has not been reported.
It is possible that some side effects of terbutaline may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
subcutaneous solution
Shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
Extra heartbeat
feeling faint, dizzy, or lightheadedness
feeling of warmth or heat
flushing or redness of the skin, especially on the face and neck
headache
sweating
Burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
excessive muscle tone
muscle stiffness
muscle tension or tightness
Arm, back, or jaw pain
blurred vision
chest pain or discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
confusion
convulsions
decreased urine
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
dry mouth
fainting
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
general feeling of discomfort or illness
increased thirst
loss of appetite
mood changes
muscle pain or cramps
nausea or vomiting
nervousness
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
pounding in the ears
seizures
shortness of breath
sleeplessness
slow or fast heartbeat
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep
unusual tiredness or weakness
Sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
Anxiety
lack or loss of strength
Fever
rash
redness, soreness, or itching skin
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
sores, welting, or blisters