Commonly reported side effects of terbinafine include: headache.
Other side effects include: diarrhea, dyspepsia, and skin rash.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, terbinafine may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking terbinafine, check with your doctor immediately:
Some terbinafine side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
In general, side effects have been mild to moderate and transient; however, this drug has been associated with serious life-threatening events such as hepatic failure, anaphylaxis, and severe neutropenia.
Unless otherwise specified, the listed side effects were reported with the tablets.
Taste disturbances were typically noticed  to  weeks after starting therapy and returned to normal within several weeks after stopping the medication.
The taste alteration has been rarely accompanied by a discoloration of the tongue and/or a disturbance in the sense of smell.
Hypogeusia (including ageusia) usually recovered within several weeks after this drug was stopped.
Isolated cases of prolonged hypogeusia have been reported.
Taste disturbance (including taste loss), paresthesia, hypoesthesia, tinnitus, and vertigo have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Some cases of taste disturbance were severe enough to cause decreased food intake, weight loss, anxiety, and depressive symptoms.
Very common ( or more): Headache Common ( to ): Taste disturbance/dysgeusia (including taste loss/ageusia), dizzinessUncommon ( to ): Hypogeusia, ageusia, paresthesia, hypoesthesia, tinnitusVery rare (less than ): Vertigo, sedation, lightheadednessFrequency not reported: Taste alterationPostmarketing reports: Smell disturbance (including loss of smell), paresthesia, hypoesthesia, hearing impairment, hypoacusis, anosmia (including permanent anosmia), hyposmia
Very common ( or more): Gastrointestinal symptoms, feeling of fullness, abdominal distension, diarrhea, dyspepsia/gastritis, nausea, abdominal pain, flatulence, vomiting, mild abdominal discomfort, abdominal cramps, belchingCommon ( to ): Upper abdominal painUncommon ( to ): ToothacheVery rare (less than ): Parotid swellingFrequency not reported: Mild to moderate gastrointestinal discomfort, gastritis, gastric fullness, nausea and vomiting, discoloration of the tongue, hypogeusia, ageusia, metallic taste, severe sialadenitisPostmarketing reports: Pancreatitis
Vomiting, upper abdominal pain, and toothache have been reported with the oral granules.
Vomiting has also been reported during postmarketing experience with the tablets.
An -year-old male who had been treated with topical antifungal agents for tinea pedis started this drug ( mg orally daily) as the lesions did not respond to topical therapy.
He was not taking any other medications and had no history of skin disease.
No other skin lesions were observed at that time.
Two weeks later, he developed erythematous and pustular lesions on his fingers and toes, and an erythematous macular eruption on the limbs.
This drug was discontinued, but the eruptions continued to worsen.
Histopathology of a punch biopsy from his toe showed intraepidermal sterile pustules containing neutrophils, so-called Kogoj's spongiform pustules.
He was then diagnosed with having acrodermatitis continua of Hallopeau and was treated with corticosteroids therapy.
An -year-old female experienced DRESS secondary to severe sialadenitis coincident with this drug.
The patient was admitted with a generalized pruriginous eruption.
She presented with erythematous and edematous widespread confluent plaques, with a scaly annular border.
She had initiated therapy  days before onset of the generalized rash, for a nonspecific squamous plaque of the trunk.
DRESS induced by this drug was diagnosed and therapy was discontinued.
Topical therapy was started with  clobetasol propionate cream applied to the whole body.
The rash progressively improved and blood eosinophilia decreased.
A -year-old male experienced acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis coincident with this drug.
He presented with a symmetrical maculopapular eruption on both lower anterior legs.
Within  days, the rash generalized with facial involvement.
He developed the rash  days after initiating oral therapy for onychomycosis.
After withdrawal of this drug, the exanthema abated within  days under topical therapy with corticosteroids.
Serious skin reactions (, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, bullous dermatitis), psoriasiform eruptions or exacerbation of psoriasis, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, hair loss, and photosensitivity reactions have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Very common ( or more): Nonserious forms of skin reactions, rash, urticariaCommon ( to ): Pruritus, erythemaUncommon ( to ): Photosensitivity reactionsVery rare (less than ): Serious skin reactions (, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis, bullous dermatitis), photosensitivity (, photodermatosis, photosensitivity allergic reaction, polymorphic light eruption), alopecia/hair loss, psoriasiform eruptions or exacerbation of psoriasis, acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis, toxic skin eruptionFrequency not reported: Reversible alopecia areata of the scalp, pustular psoriasis, acrodermatitis continua of HallopeauPostmarketing reports: Serious skin reactions (, drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms [DRESS] syndrome)
Very common ( or more): Decreased appetite/anorexiaFrequency not reported: Hypoglycemia, decreased food intake (due to taste disturbance)
Arthralgia and myalgia have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Very common ( or more): Musculoskeletal reactions, arthralgia, myalgiaVery rare (less than ): Cutaneous and systemic lupus erythematosusPostmarketing reports: Rhabdomyolysis, increased blood creatine phosphokinase, precipitation and exacerbation of cutaneous and systemic lupus erythematosus
Liver enzyme abnormalities (at least  times the upper limit of normal) have been reported in  of patients.
In most liver failure cases, patients had serious underlying systemic conditions; causal association with this drug was unclear.
A -year-old male with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection developed drug-induced acute autoimmune hepatitis coincident with this drug.
He was given  mg once daily over a -week period for dermatophyte toenail onychomycosis.
He developed the side effect just prior to completing the course of therapy.
He was not taking any other drugs or herbal supplements, did not drink alcohol, and did not appear to suffer a flare of HBV infection.
Liver function studies began to normalize  weeks after this drug was discontinued.
Cases of liver failure (some leading to death or liver transplant), hepatitis, cholestasis, and increased hepatic enzymes have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Common ( to ): Liver enzyme abnormalitiesRare ( to ): Serious liver dysfunction (including hepatic failure, increased hepatic enzymes, jaundice, cholestasis, liver decompensation, hepatitis), transient increases in liver enzymes, hepatobiliary dysfunction, cholestatic jaundice, liver failure (some cases leading to death or liver transplant)Frequency not reported: Development of idiosyncratic and symptomatic hepatobiliary dysfunction, drug-induced autoimmune hepatitisPostmarketing reports: Idiosyncratic and symptomatic hepatic injury
Common ( to ): DepressionVery rare (less than ): AnxietyFrequency not reported: InsomniaPostmarketing reports: Anxiety (independent of taste disturbance), depressive symptoms (independent of taste disturbance), anxiety (secondary to taste disturbances), depressive symptoms (secondary to taste disturbances)
Common ( to ): Pyrexia, tiredness/fatigueUncommon ( to ): Weight decreasedRare ( to ): Malaise (secondary to dysgeusia)Very rare (less than ): Chest painFrequency not reported: Weight loss (due to taste disturbance), weight decreased (secondary to hypogeusia)Postmarketing reports: Influenza-like illness
Pyrexia has been reported with the oral granules; it has also been reported during postmarketing experience with the tablets.
Malaise and fatigue have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Common ( to ): Nasopharyngitis, cough, upper respiratory tract infection, influenza, pharyngolaryngeal pain, rhinorrhea, nasal congestion
Nasopharyngitis, cough, upper respiratory tract infection, influenza, pharyngolaryngeal pain, rhinorrhea, and nasal congestion have been reported with the oral granules.
Changes in the ocular lens and retina have been reported; however, the clinical significance is unknown.
Dyschromatopsia, whereby the patient reported a greenish hue in her vision, and photopsia have occurred in a patient after  weeks of therapy.
This problem resolved within  week of discontinuing the drug.
Common ( to ): Visual disturbanceFrequency not reported: Changes in ocular lens and retina, dyschromatopsia, photopsiaPostmarketing reports: Reduced visual acuity, visual field defect, blurred vision
Agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, anemia, and pancytopenia have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Uncommon ( to ): AnemiaVery rare (less than ): Neutropenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, pancytopeniaFrequency not reported: Leukopenia, lymphopenia, transient decreases in hematocrit, transient decreases in hemoglobin, transient decreases in leukocytesPostmarketing reports: Severe neutropenia, altered prothrombin time (prolonged and reduced) with concomitant warfarin
Very rare (less than ): Anaphylactoid reactions (including angioedema)Frequency not reported: Anaphylaxis, hypersensitivity reactionsPostmarketing reports: Serious hypersensitivity reactions (, angioedema, allergic reactions [including anaphylaxis]), anaphylactic reaction, serum sickness-like reaction
Frequency not reported: Renal function test impairment, transient increases in serum urea, transient increases in serum creatinine
Frequency not reported: Hematuria, transient erectile dysfunction in male patients
Postmarketing reports: Vasculitis
It is possible that some side effects of terbinafine may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Fever
Body aches or pain
chills
cough
diarrhea
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
joint pain
loss of appetite
loss of voice
nasal congestion
nausea
runny nose
shivering
skin rash or itching
sneezing
sore throat
sweating
trouble with sleeping
unusual tiredness or weakness
upper abdominal or stomach pain
vomiting
Dark urine
difficulty with swallowing
pale skin
pale stools
redness, blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
stomach pain
unusual bleeding or bruising
yellow skin or eyes
Black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
bloating
blood in the urine or stools
chest pain
constipation
cough or hoarseness
dizziness
fast heartbeat
feeling of discomfort
flu-like symptoms
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
hair loss
high fever
hives
indigestion
inflammation of the joints
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
light-colored stools
lower back or side pain
muscle aches
painful or difficult urination
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
persistent loss of appetite
pinpoint red spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
red, scaling, or crusted skin
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
sores, welting, or blisters
stomach pain, continuing
swollen glands
swollen lymph glands
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing with exertion
ulcers, sores, or white spots in the mouth
unexplained bleeding or bruising
Stomach pain (mild)
Acid or sour stomach
bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
belching
change of taste or loss of taste
heartburn
toothache
Decreased vision
difficulty with moving
discouragement
feeling sad or empty
irritability
lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
loss of sense of smell
muscle cramps or spasms
muscle stiffness
tiredness
trouble concentrating