Commonly reported side effects of teriparatide include: arthralgia, pain, and rhinitis.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, teriparatide may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

Also, because of the way these medicines act on the body, there is a chance that they might cause other unwanted effects that may not occur until months or years after the medicine is used.
These delayed effects may include certain types of cancer, such as bone cancer.
Discuss these possible effects with your doctor.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking teriparatide, check with your doctor immediately:
Some teriparatide side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Common (1% to 10%): Hypotension, hypertension, palpitations, chest pain, angina pectorisUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Tachycardia, cardiac murmurFrequency not reported: Peripheral edema
Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, vomiting, hiatus hernia, gastro-esophageal reflux disease, constipation, diarrhea, dyspepsia, gastrointestinal disorder, tooth disorderUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Hemorrhoids
Very common (10% or more): Pain in limb, arthralgia (10%)Common (1% to 10%): Muscle cramps, neck pain, leg crampsUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Myalgia, arthralgia, back cramp/pain
Common (1% to 10%): Dizziness, headache, sciatica, syncope
Common (1% to 10%): Dyspnea, rhinitis, cough increased, pharyngitis, pneumoniaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Emphysema
Common (1% to 10%): Rash, sweating increased
Frequency not reported: Transient hypoparathyroidism
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Anaphylaxis, possible allergic events soon after injection (e.
g.
, acute dyspnea, oro/facial edema, generalized urticaria, chest pain, edema (mainly peripheral)Postmarketing reports: Drug hypersensitivity, angioedema, urticaria
Common (1% to 10%): Anemia
Common (1% to 10%): Mild and transient injection site events (e.
g.
, pain, swelling, erythema, localized bruising, pruritus, minor bleeding at injection site)Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Injection site erythema, injection site reaction
Common (1% to 10%): HypercholesterolemiaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Hypercalcemia (greater than 2.
76 mmol/L), hyperuricemia, weight gain, alkaline phosphatase increase
Very common (10% or more): Pain (21%)Common (1% to 10%): Vertigo, fatigue, asthenia, syncope
Common (1% to 10%): Depression, insomnia
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Urinary incontinence, polyuria, micturition urgency, nephrolithiasisRare (less than 0.
1%): Renal failure/impairment
Frequency not reported: Osteosarcoma
It is possible that some side effects of teriparatide may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal pain
confusion
constipation
depression
dry mouth
headache
incoherent speech
increased urination
loss of appetite
metallic taste
muscle weakness
nausea
thirst
unusual tiredness
vomiting
weight loss
Arm, back, or jaw pain
chest pain or discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
cough
difficult or labored breathing
fainting
fast or irregular heartbeat
fever or chills
nausea
shortness of breath
sneezing
sore throat
sweating
tightness in the chest
wheezing
Hives or welts
itching
redness of the skin
skin rash
swelling or puffiness of the mouth and face
Acid or sour stomach
belching
blurred vision
body aches or pain
congestion
diarrhea
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
difficulty with moving
dizziness
heartburn
hoarseness
indigestion
lack or loss of strength
muscle pain or stiffness
muscle spasm
nervousness
pain in the joints
pounding in the ears
runny nose
tender, swollen glands in the neck
trouble with swallowing
voice changes
Abdominal or stomach cramps
back pain
discomfort
discouragement
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
feeling sad or empty
indigestion
irritability
lack of appetite
leg cramps
loss of interest or pleasure
neck pain
rash
sensation of spinning
sleeplessness
swollen mouth and tongue
tiredness
tooth disorder
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
unpleasant taste
urge to have bowel movement
Pain at the place of injection during or following the injection
tingling feeling in the hands and feet
urge for bowel movement
Bruising at the injection site
flushing
minor bleeding at the injection site
unusually warm skin