As well as its needed effects, anti-thymocyte globulin (rabbit) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking anti-thymocyte globulin (rabbit), check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some anti-thymocyte globulin (rabbit) side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
General side effects have included chills, fever, infections and pain.
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypertension, peripheral edema, tachycardia, pulmonary edema and myocardial infarction.
Other side effects have included infections (bacterial, fungal, viral and protozoal), reactivation of infections (particularly cytomegalovirus [CMV]) and sepsis.
Nervous system side effects have included headache, malaise, asthenia and dizziness.
Hematologic side effects have included leukopenia and thrombocytopenia.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included gastrointestinal and oral moniliasis, abdominal pain, nausea, diarrhea and vomiting.
Genitourinary side effects have included urinary tract infection and vaginitis.
Dermatologic side effects have included herpes simplex infections and rash.
Respiratory side effects have included pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome, pulmonary edema and dyspnea.
Metabolic side effects have included hyperkalemia.
It is possible that some side effects of Thymoglobulin may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Black, tarry stools
bladder pain
chest pain
chills
cloudy or bloody urine
cold
confusion
cough or hoarseness
fast heartbeat
fever
flu-like symptoms
frequent urge to urinate
high blood pressure
irregular or slow heartbeat
lower back or side pain
numbness or tingling around the lips, hands, or feet
painful or difficult urination
shortness of breath or troubled breathing
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swollen glands
tiredness or weakness
unexplained anxiety
unusual bleeding or bruising
weakness or heaviness of the legs
Burning or stinging of the skin
painful cold sores or blisters on the lips, nose, eyes, or genitals
Abdominal or stomach pain
diarrhea
dizziness
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
loss of strength or energy
muscle pain or weakness
nausea
pain
swelling of the ankles, feet, and fingers
tightness in the chest
unusual weak feeling