More frequent side effects include: hemiparesis and hemiplegia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, thyrotropin alpha (the active ingredient contained in Thyrogen) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking thyrotropin alpha, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking thyrotropin alpha, get emergency help immediately:
Some thyrotropin alpha side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included myalgia and arthralgia.
General side effects have included influenza-like symptoms, also called flu-like symptoms, which have include fever over 100 degrees F, shivering, chills, fatigue, and malaise.
Nervous system side effects have included headache, dizziness, asthenia, and paresthesia.
In addition, acute hemiplegia and hemiparesis occurred in patients with central nervous system metastases one to three days following thyrotropin alfa treatment.
Postmarketing side effects include spontaneous reports of stroke or unilateral weakness.
Other side effects have included rare reports of events leading to death occurring within 24 hours after thyrotropin alpha (the active ingredient contained in Thyrogen) administration.
A 77 year-old non-thyroidectomized patient with a history of heart disease and spinal metastases who received 4 thyrotropin alfa injections over 6 days in a special treatment protocol experienced a fatal MI 24 hours after he received the last injection.
The event was likely related to thyrotropin alfa -induced hyperthyroidism.
Oncologic side effects have included sudden, rapid and painful enlargement of locally recurring papillary carcinoma occurring within 12-48 hours of thyrotropin alpha (the active ingredient contained in Thyrogen) administration.
Cardiovascular side effects reported postmarketing include atrial arrhythmias in elderly patients with pre-existing cardiac disease.
Hypersensitivity side effects include very rare manifestations of hypersensitivity (urticaria, rash, pruritus, flushing and respiratory signs and symptoms) postmarketing in patients with advanced disease.
It is possible that some side effects of Thyrogen may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Inability to move the legs or arms
paralysis of one side of the body
Faintness
itching, redness, or swelling at the injection site
skin rash
tightness of the throat
wheezing
Feeling of warmth
hives or welts
itching
loss of vision
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
redness of the skin
Chills
confusion
coughing
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty with speaking
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
double vision
fast, slow, or irregular heartbeat
fever
headache
hoarseness
inability to move the facial muscles
inability to speak
muscle or joint pain
noisy breathing
slow or irregular breathing
slow speech
sore throat
voice changes
Blurred vision
chest pain
dizziness dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fast or irregular heartbeat
increased sweating
irritability
nausea
nervousness
shortness of breath
sweating
Flushing of the face
frequent urge to urinate
stomach discomfort
Burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
diarrhea
fever
lack or loss of strength
muscle aches
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
trouble sleeping