As well as its needed effects, tiagabine may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking tiagabine, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some tiagabine side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Nervous system side effects including dizziness ( to ), asthenia ( to ), tremor ( to ), somnolence ( to ), nervousness ( to ), difficulty with concentration/attention ( to ), ataxia ( to ), depression ( to ), insomnia ( to ), abnormal gait , and hostility  have been reported.
From the launch of tiagabine in  through the end of , fifty-nine postmarketing reports of seizures in patients without a history of epilepsy have been reported.
A case of transient athetosis induced by tiagabine has also been reported.
In patients experiencing incapacitating generalized weakness, the weakness resolved in all cases after either discontinuation or a reduction in tiagabine dosage.
General side effects including accidental injury ( to ), infection ( to ), flu syndrome ( to ), pain ( to ), and abdominal pain ( to ) have been reported.
Moderately severe to incapacitating generalized weakness  has also been reported.
Gastrointestinal side effects including diarrhea ( to ), nausea, vomiting, and mouth ulceration have been reported.
Studies have reported that when dogs received a single dose of radiolabeled tiagabine, residual binding in the retina and uvea was present after  weeks.
While no specific recommendations for periodic ophthalmic monitoring are recommended, prescribers should be aware of the possibility of long term ophthalmic effects.
Ocular side effects including amblyopia ( to  ) have been reported.
Respiratory side effects including pharyngitis ( to ) have been reported.
Hematologic side effects including ecchymosis have been reported in up to  of patients receiving tiagabine therapy.
A case of thrombocytopenia suspected of being secondary to tiagabine has also been reported.
Musculoskeletal side effects including myalgia ( to ) have been reported.
Three cases of transient dystonias have also been reported.
Genitourinary side effects including urinary tract infection have been reported in up to  of patients on tiagabine therapy.
A definite correlation between tiagabine and any of the rashes was not made.
Dermatologic side effects including four cases of serious rashes have been reported.
Two of the rashes were maculopapular, one case was vesiculobullous, and the last was diagnosed as Stevens-Johnson Syndrome.
It is possible that some side effects of tiagabine may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Blue or purple spots on skin
difficulty in concentrating or paying attention
Burning, numbness, or tingling sensations
clumsiness or unsteadiness
confusion
itching
mental depression
speech or language problems
Agitation
bloody or cloudy urine
burning, pain, or difficulty in urinating
frequent urge to urinate
generalized weakness
hostility
memory problems
quick to react or overreact emotionally
rash
uncontrolled back-and-forth and/or rolling eye movements
walking in unusual manner
Agitation (severe)
clumsiness or unsteadiness (severe)
coma
confusion (severe)
drowsiness (severe)
increase in seizures
mental depression
severe muscle twitching or jerking
sluggishness
speech problems (severe)
weakness
Chills
diarrhea
dizziness
drowsiness
fever
headache
muscle aches or pain
nervousness
sore throat
tremor
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Abdominal pain
flushing
impaired vision
increased appetite 
increased cough
mouth ulcers
muscle weakness
nausea
pain
trouble in sleeping