Commonly reported side effects of ticagrelor include: dyspnea.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, ticagrelor may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some ticagrelor side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most commonly reported side effects were bleeding and dyspnea.
Very common ( or more): Bleeding 
In the PLATO study (PLATelet Inhibition and Patient Outcomes, n= ,),  patients were treated with ticagrelor  mg orally twice a day.
Patients were evaluated for non-CABG related major or minor bleeds compared to clopidogrel (n=).
A minor bleed required medical intervention to stop or treat bleeding, whereas a major bleed included any of the following: fatal, intracranial, intrapericardial with cardiac tamponade, hypovolemic shock or severe hypotension requiring intervention, significantly disabling (, intraocular with permanent vision loss), a decrease in hemoglobin of at least  g/dL (or a fall in hematocrit of at least ), or a transfusion of  or more units.
A major bleed that was fatal/life-threatening was any of the events described as a major bleed plus a decrease in hemoglobin of more than  g/dL, a fall in hematocrit of at least , or a transfusion of  or more units.
A fatal bleed was a bleeding event that directly led to death within  days.
For ticagrelor, the incidence of major and minor bleeds was  (clopidogrel ).
These findings are broken down as followed: Major bleed  major bleed fatal/life threatening , fatal , and intracranial hemorrhage fatal/life threatening .
Approximately half of the non-CABG major bleeding events occurred in the first  days.
In the PLATO study, when antiplatelet therapy was stopped  days prior to CABG, major bleeding occurred in  and  of patients receiving ticagrelor or clopidogrel, respectively.
During the PLATO study, (PLATelet Inhibition and Patient Outcomes, n= ,), dyspnea was reported in  of ticagrelor-treated patients, it was usually mild to moderate in intensity and often resolved during continued treatment, however, drug discontinuation was required in  of patients.
In the PEGASUS study (n=,),  of patients taking ticagrelor  mg orally twice a day discontinued treatment due to dyspnea compared to  receiving aspirin alone.
In a substudy of PLATO,  subjects underwent pulmonary function testing irrespective of whether they reported dyspnea.
There was no indication of an adverse effect on pulmonary function assessed after one month or after at least  months of chronic treatment.
Very common ( or more): Dyspnea Common ( to ): Epistaxis, coughUncommon ( to ): Hemoptysis
In a Holter substudy of approximately  patients from the PLATelet Inhibition and Patient Outcomes study, (PLATO, n= ,), more patients had ventricular pauses  seconds or longer with ticagrelor  than with clopidogrel  in the acute phase and  and  respectively after  month.
Patients that were at an increased risk for bradycardic events were excluded from these studies.
Patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) who were taking ticagrelor experienced ventricular pauses at a higher rate  than those without CHF .
Common ( to ): Ventricular pauses, cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, bradycardia, cardiac failure, atrial fibrillation, peripheral edema, hypertension, hypotension, syncope, pre-syncopeUncommon ( to ): Non-cardiac chest painPostmarketing reports: Atrioventricular block
During the PLATO study, (PLATelet Inhibition and Patient Outcomes, n= ,), serum creatinine levels increased by more than  in  of patients receiving ticagrelor  mg orally.
Levels did not continue to increase with ongoing treatment and often decreased with continued therapy.
Reversibility occurred upon discontinuation even in those patients with the greatest increase in levels during treatment.
Treatment groups did not differ for renal related serious adverse events (  acute renal failure, chronic renal failure, toxic nephropathy, or oliguria).
Common ( to ): Serum creatinine elevations
Common ( to ): Back painRare ( to ): Hemarthrosis
Postmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity reactions including angioedema
Common ( to ): Dizziness, loss of consciousnessUncommon ( to ): Intracranial hemorrhage, paresthesia, headache
Common ( to ): Abdominal pain, dyspepsia, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, nausea, diarrhea, constipation, vomitingUncommon ( to ): Retroperitoneal hemorrhage, gastritis, hematemesis, gastrointestinal ulcer hemorrhage, hemorrhoidal hemorrhage, oral hemorrhage
Uncommon ( to ): GoutRare ( to ): Hyperuricemia
In the PLATelet Inhibition and Patient Outcomes Study (PLATO, n= ,) the serum uric acid levels of patients taking ticagrelor  mg orally twice a day increased approximately  mg/dL from baseline.
The difference disappeared within  days of stopping treatment.
Gout occurred in  of patients.
Common ( to ): Urinary tract bleedingUncommon ( to ): Vaginal bleeding
Common ( to ): Rash, pruritus, subcutaneous or dermal bleeding, bruising
Uncommon ( to ): Eye hemorrhage
Common ( to ): Vertigo, post procedural hemorrhage, fatigue, pyrexiaUncommon ( to ): Ear hemorrhage, wound hemorrhage, traumatic hemorrhage
Rare ( to ): Confusion
It is possible that some side effects of ticagrelor may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Difficult or labored breathing
tightness in the chest
Blurred vision
chest pain or discomfort
confusion
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fainting
fast or irregular heartbeat
headache
lightheadedness, dizziness, or fainting
loss of consciousness
nervousness
pounding in the ears
slow or fast heartbeat
sweating
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bleeding gums
bruising
coughing up blood
difficulty with swallowing
headache, sudden and severe
increased menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
nausea or vomiting
nosebleeds
paralysis
prolonged bleeding from cuts
rash
red or black, tarry stools
red or dark brown urine
weakness
Back pain
cough
diarrhea
Swelling of the breasts or breast soreness in both females and males