As well as its needed effects, ticlopidine (the active ingredient contained in Ticlid) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some ticlopidine side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The majority of cases of neutropenia, agranulocytosis, aplastic anemia, and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura occur during the first three months of treatment.
US physicians reported  cases of TTP between  and   Delayed onset of neutropenia, after discontinuation of ticlopidine (the active ingredient contained in Ticlid)  has been reported.
Hematologic parameters should be monitored every other week for the first three months of therapy and ticlopidine should be discontinued if laboratory values are altered or if symptoms of infection or bleeding are noted.
Thereafter, the patient should be monitored for signs of infection.
Patients should be counseled concerning signs and symptoms of TTP (weakness, pallor, petechiae, purpura, dark urine, jaundice or mental status changes) and instructed to discontinue ticlopidine and immediately report any of these findings.
Platelet infusions may accelerate thrombosis and should be avoided if possible.
Ecchymosis, epistaxis, hematuria, conjunctival hemorrhage, and gastrointestinal bleeding have been associated with ticlopidine therapy.
Intracerebral bleeding occurred in approximately  of patients in clinical trials.
Postsurgical bleeding may also occur.
To minimize the effects of postsurgical bleeding, it is generally recommended that ticlopidine be discontinued  weeks before any surgical or dental interventions.
Hematologic dyscrasias have been the most serious adverse effects associated with ticlopidine therapy.
Reversible neutropenia (severe in ) occurred in  of patients.
Thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, pancytopenia, hemolytic anemia with reticulocytosis, and aplastic anemia have been reported.
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), not noted during clinical trials, has occurred at an estimated incidence of  case per  to  exposures.
Symptoms include thrombocytopenia, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (fragmented RBCs on a peripheral smear), renal dysfunction, fever, and neurological changes.
Gastrointestinal disturbances have been noted in up to  of patients.
Dyspepsia, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, flatulence, and gastric pain have occurred.
Some gastrointestinal symptoms lessen with continued therapy and administration with food may decrease gastrointestinal intolerance.
Cases of ticlopidine-induced chronic diarrhea have been reported.
Two case reports of patients developing maculopapular pruritic rashes following administration of clopidogrel have been reported.
The rash recurred in both patients after switching to ticlopidine (the active ingredient contained in Ticlid)   In one patient, rechallenge resulted in recurrence of the rash.
These two cases illustrate the possibility of cross-sensitivity between thienopyridines.
Dermatologic adverse effects have occurred frequently.
Rash, generally maculopapular or urticarial, has been experienced in up to  of treated patients.
At least one case of multiple fixed-drug eruptions, consisting of rash and generalized patches of hyperpigmentation, has been reported.
Hepatic side effects typically have been mild and have included reversible elevations in liver function tests (up to ).
The incidence of cholestatic jaundice has increased.
Postmarketing side effects have included hepatitis and hepatic necrosis.
Cholestatic jaundice has developed within  to  months of initiating therapy.
Resolution of jaundice and normalization of hepatic enzymes concentrations occurred upon discontinuation of therapy.
Numerous cases of ticlopidine-induced cholestatic hepatitis have been reported.
Time to the onset of hepatotoxicity is variable and ranges from  week to  months after initiating ticlopidine,  to  weeks in most patients.
In one patient, hepatotoxicity appeared  month after discontinuing ticlopidine because of rash.
Symptoms and liver abnormalities resolved following discontinuation of ticlopidine, typically within  to  months; however, recovery time may be protracted (i.
e.
more than  months).
Cases of irreversible hepatic damage have not been reported.
Metabolic disturbances have included persistent elevation of total serum cholesterol.
Reversible renal failure has been reported in patients receiving ticlopidine (the active ingredient contained in Ticlid) after stent implantation.
Other postmarketing reports have included incidences of nephrotic syndrome.
Side effects have occurred in up to  of patients.
Generally, side effects have been mild and most frequently involved the gastrointestinal tract ( to ).
Diarrhea, rash, nausea, vomiting, gastric pain, and neutropenia were the primary cause of a  discontinuation rate.
Asthenia and generalized pain have been reported.
Nervous system side effects of dizziness, anorexia, and headache have been reported.
Postmarketing reports of peripheral neuropathy have been noted.
Postmarketing hypersensitivity reactions have included allergic pneumonitis, angioedema, vasculitis, and serum sickness.
Several cases of ticlopidine-induced systemic and cutaneous lupus erythematosus (positive ANA) have been reported.
Clinical improvement occurred in all patients following withdrawal of ticlopidine (the active ingredient contained in Ticlid) 
Postmarketing musculoskeletal side effects have included arthropathy and myositis.
At least one case of ticlopidine-associated arthritis has been reported.
It is possible that some side effects of Ticlid may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal or stomach pain (severe) or swelling
back pain
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin or lips or mucous membranes (moist lining of many body cavities, including the mouth, lips, inside of nose, anus, and vagina)
blood in eyes
bloody or black tarry stools
bruising or purple areas on skin
change in mental status
convulsions (seizures)
coughing up blood
dark or bloody urine
decreased alertness
dizziness
fever, chills, or sore throat 
headache (severe or continuing)
joint pain or swelling
nosebleeds
pale color of skin
paralysis or problems with coordination
pinpoint red spots on skin
red lesions on the skin, often with a purple center
red, thickened, or scaly skin
sores, ulcers, or white spots in mouth
stammering or other difficulty in speaking
unusually heavy bleeding or oozing from cuts or wounds
unusual tiredness 
unusually heavy or unexpected menstrual bleeding 
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
weakness
yellow eyes or skin
Skin rash
General feeling of discomfort or illness
hives or itching of skin
ringing or buzzing in ears 
Abdominal or stomach pain (mild)
diarrhea 
indigestion
nausea
Bloating or gas
dizziness
vomiting