Common side effects of Tikosyn include: ventricular arrhythmia, ventricular tachycardia, and chest pain.
Other side effects include: flu-like symptoms.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, dofetilide (the active ingredient contained in Tikosyn) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking dofetilide, check with your doctor immediately:
Some dofetilide side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Torsade de pointes is the only arrhythmia reported by the manufacturer that showed a dose-response relationship.
Cardiovascular effects have included ventricular arrhythmias, AV block, bundle branch block, heart block, chest pain, angioedema, bradycardia, cerebral ischemia, cerebrovascular accident, edema, heart arrest and myocardial infarct.
General side effects including headache (11%), dizziness (8%), flu syndrome ( 4%), insomnia (4%), accidental injury (3%), back pain (3%) and rash (3%) and sudden death have been reported.
Gastrointestinal effects have included nausea (5%), diarrhea (3%) and abdominal pain (3%).
Respiratory effects have included respiratory tract infection (7%), dyspnea (6%) and cough.
Nervous system effects have included paresthesias, facial paralysis, paralysis, flaccid paralysis, migraine and syncope.
Hepatic side effects including liver damage has been reported with a frequency of less than 2%.
It is possible that some side effects of Tikosyn may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Dizziness
fainting
fast heartbeat
Chest pain
confusion
facial or flaccid paralysis
numbness or tingling of the hands, feet, or face
paralysis
pounding, slow heartbeat
slurred speech
swelling of the ankles, arms, face, feet, fingers, legs, lips, tongue, or throat
troubled breathing
unexplained shortness of breath
unusual tiredness or weakness
weight gain
yellow eyes or skin
Abdominal or stomach pain
accidental injury
back pain
chills
cough
diarrhea
fever
flu-like symptoms
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
joint pain
loss of appetite
migraine
muscle aches and pains
nausea
rash
runny nose
shivering
sneezing
sore throat
sweating
trouble sleeping
vomiting