As well as its needed effects, tinzaparin may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking tinzaparin, check with your doctor immediately:
Some tinzaparin side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Hematologic side effects including epistaxis , hemorrhage , hematoma (greater than ), thrombocytopenia (greater than ), anemia (greater than ), and hematuria  have been reported.
Other side effects including anorectal bleeding, cerebral/intracranial bleeding, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, hemarthrosis, hematemesis, hemoptysis, ocular hemorrhage, injection site bleeding, melena, purpura, retroperitoneal/intra-abdominal bleeding, vaginal hemorrhage, granulocytopenia, agranulocytosis, pancytopenia, and wound hematoma have been reported in ongoing or completed clinical trials or from post marketing experience.
Patients previously exposed to unfractionated heparin or a low-molecular-weight heparin appear to be more susceptible to developing heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) and HIT-related thromboembolic complications (, transient ischemic attack, stroke) than those who were never exposed.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is an immune-mediated, prothrombotic reaction that occurs in  to  of patients treated with unfractionated heparin and in less than  of patients treated with a low molecular weight heparin (LMWH).
The decrease in platelet count associated with HIT usually begins  to  days after starting heparin.
However, patients with a previous exposure to heparin may have an abrupt decrease in platelets upon restarting heparin.
Patients with LMWH-induced HIT exhibit a longer delay in the onset of symptoms compared with those who develop it from unfractionated heparin.
Following discontinuation, platelet counts begin to recover within  days, but may take more than  weeks in patients with high-titer HIT antibodies.
Thrombocytopenia is caused by heparin-dependent IgG antibodies that bind to a specific platelet protein, platelet factor  (PF).
The heparin-PF-IgG immune complex binds to platelets causing platelet activation.
The activated platelets cause release of platelet-derived procoagulant microparticles, which accelerate coagulation reactions and generates thrombin.
LMWHs have a high cross-reactivity with circulating heparin-PF-IgG immune complex.
Factors associated with a higher risk for developing HIT-associated thrombosis include women, nonwhites, severity of thrombocytopenia, and lower body weight.
Complications associated with HIT include exacerbation of venous thromboembolism, arterial or venous thrombosis, limb gangrene, stroke, and skin necrosis.
The antibodies that cause HIT will usually disappear after approximately  months; therefore, use of unfractionated heparin or LMWH may be considered in a patient with a history of HIT if the antibody test is negative.
Cardiovascular side effects including chest pain , hypotension (greater than ), tachycardia (greater than ), hypertension (greater than ), and angina pectoris (greater than ) have been reported.
Other side effects including myocardial infarction/coronary thrombosis, cardiac arrhythmias and thromboembolism have been reported in ongoing or completed clinical trials or from post marketing experience.
Dermatologic side effects including rash , bullous eruption (greater than ), erythematous rash (greater than ), and pruritus (greater than ) have been reported.
Other side effects including epidermal necrolysis, ischemic necrosis, urticaria, and skin necrosis have been reported in ongoing or completed clinical trials or from post marketing experience.
Diffuse alopecia in a diabetic man receiving tinzaparin has also been reported.
A -year-old man with end-stage renal disease (who had been receiving dialysis for about a year) complained of hair loss from the right temporal area.
He had been taking enoxaparin for  months to prevent extracorporeal blood clotting, but was switched to tinzaparin for the last three months.
It was suspected that the alopecia was due to tinzaparin use.
Tinzaparin was subsequently discontinued and enoxaparin was reinitiated.
A gradual regrowth of hair was noted over the next few months, with a full restoration of normal hair growth at  months.
Respiratory tract symptoms including pulmonary embolism  and dyspnea  have been reported.
Hepatic side effects including cholestatic hepatitis and increases in hepatic enzymes have been reported in ongoing or completed clinical trials or from post marketing experience.
General side effects including headache , pain , fever , insomnia (greater than ), and healing impairment (greater than ) have been reported.
Other side effects including angioedema, dependent edema, and peripheral ischemia have been reported in ongoing or completed clinical trials or from post marketing experience.
Genitourinary side effects including urinary tract infection , dysuria (greater than ), and urinary retention (greater than ) have been reported.
Other side effects including priapism have been reported in ongoing or completed clinical trials or from post marketing experience.
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea , constipation , flatulence (greater than ), dyspepsia (greater than ), vomiting , abdominal pain , and diarrhea  have been reported in ongoing or completed clinical trials or from post marketing experience.
Musculoskeletal side effects including back pain  have been reported.
Local side effects including injection site hematoma (greater than ) have been reported.
Other side effects including cellulitis at the injection site, abscess, and necrosis have been reported in ongoing or completed clinical trials or from post marketing experience.
Nervous system side effects including dizziness (greater than ) have been reported
Psychiatric side effects including confusion (greater than ) have been reported.
Immunologic side effects including infection (greater than ) have been reported.
Oncologic side effects including nonspecified neoplasm have been reported.
It is possible that some side effects of tinzaparin may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Deep, dark purple bruise, pain, or swelling at the place of injection
Bladder pain
bleeding gums
blood in the urine
bloody or cloudy urine
blurred vision
chest pain
chest tightness
chills
confusion
cough
coughing up blood
difficulty with breathing or swallowing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fast, slow, or irregular heartbeat
fever
frequent urge to urinate
headache
increased menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding
lower back or side pain
nosebleeds
pain or burning while urinating
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
palpitations
paralysis
pounding in the ears
prolonged bleeding from cuts
red or black, tarry stools
red or dark brown urine
severe or continuing dull nervousness
shortness of breath
skin rash
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
sweating
swollen glands
troubled breathing, exertional
unexplained pain, swelling, or discomfort, especially in the chest, abdomen or stomach, joints, or muscles
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood or material like coffee grounds
Blue-green to black skin discoloration
bowel or bladder dysfunction
hives
itching
leg weakness
numbness
pain, redness, or sloughing of the skin at the place of injection
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
wheezing
Abdominal or stomach pain
accumulation of pus
break in the skin, especially associated with blue-black discoloration, swelling, or drainage of fluid
change in vision
clay-colored stools
collection of blood under the skin
diarrhea
excessive thirst
general feeling of discomfort or illness
hoarseness
large, flat, blue or purplish patches in the skin
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
muscle cramps
numbness and tingling of the face, fingers, or toes
pain in the arms, legs, or lower back, especially pain in the calves or heels upon exertion
pain, redness, or swelling
painful knees and ankles
pale, bluish-colored, or cold hands or feet
problems with vision or hearing
raised, red swellings on the skin, buttocks, legs or ankles
red or irritated eyes
redness, tenderness, burning, blistering, or peeling of the skin (usually on the backs of arms and the fronts of legs, mouth, eyes, hands, or feet)
seeing floating spots before the eyes
swollen, red, or tender area of infection
unpleasant breath odor
weak or absent pulses in the legs
yellow eyes or skin
Constipation
nausea and vomiting
prolonged, painful, or inappropriate erection of the penis
trouble with sleeping
Hives or welts
redness of the skin