Commonly reported side effects of tipranavir include: hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, tipranavir may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some tipranavir side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most frequent side effects reported in clinical trials with this drug (plus ritonavir) were diarrhea/loose stools, nausea, fatigue, headache, vomiting, pyrexia, abdominal pain, and hyperlipidemia.
Therapy was discontinued due to side effects in  of patients using tipranavir/ritonavir and  of patients using the comparator.
The manufacturer product information for ritonavir should be consulted.
Very common ( or more): Elevated triglycerides (up to ), elevated cholesterol (up to )Common ( to ): Hypertriglyceridemia, hyperlipidemia, dehydration, decreased appetiteUncommon ( to ): Anorexia, diabetes mellitus, hyperamylasemia, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemiaFrequency not reported: Mitochondrial toxicity, porphyria cutanea tardaAntiretroviral therapy:-Frequency not reported: Redistribution/accumulation of body fat (including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement, peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, "cushingoid appearance"), increased blood lipid levels, increased glucose levelsProtease inhibitor therapy:-Postmarketing reports: New onset diabetes mellitus, exacerbation of preexisting diabetes mellitus, hyperglycemia, diabetic ketoacidosis
Elevated triglycerides (grade  [ to  mg/dL]: ; grade  [greater than  to  mg/dL]: ; grade  [greater than  mg/dL]: ) and cholesterol (grade  [greater than  to  mg/dL]: ; grade  [greater than  to  mg/dL]: ; grade  [greater than  mg/dL]: ) have been reported at  weeks in controlled trials.
Grade  to  ALT and/or AST elevations (greater than  times the upper limit of normal [ x ULN]: ), ALT elevations (grade  [greater than  to  x ULN]: ; grade  [greater than  to  x ULN]: ; grade  [greater than  x ULN]: ), and AST elevations (grade : ; grade : ; grade : ) have been reported at  weeks in controlled trials.
In controlled clinical trials continued up to  weeks,  of patients developed grade  to  ALT and/or AST elevations.
Grade  and  hepatic transaminase elevations were reported in  of therapy-experienced patients in  large studies and in  of therapy-naive patients in  study; the studies were through  weeks.
Elevated ALT or AST at baseline and hepatitis B or C coinfection were risk factors for such elevations in the  large studies; most patients were able to continue therapy with this drug (plus ritonavir).
Clinical hepatitis and hepatic decompensation (including some fatalities) have been reported with this drug (plus ritonavir); generally in patients with advanced HIV- disease taking multiple concomitant medications.
Significant liver toxicity has been reported with this drug (plus ritonavir).
In at least  clinical trials, the frequency of transaminase elevations was significantly increased with this drug (plus ritonavir) compared to the comparator.
Very common ( or more): Elevated ALT and/or AST (up to ), increased hepatic transaminases (up to ), elevated ALT (up to )Common ( to ): Elevated AST, elevated GGTUncommon ( to ): Increased hepatic enzymes, cytolytic hepatitis, abnormal liver function tests, hepatitis, toxic hepatitis, hepatic steatosisRare (less than ): Hepatic failure (including fatalities), hyperbilirubinemiaFrequency not reported: Clinical hepatitis, hepatic decompensation, liver toxicity, hepatic impairment
Very common ( or more): Diarrhea , nauseaCommon ( to ): Vomiting, elevated amylase, abdominal pain, upper abdominal pain, abdominal distension, dyspepsia, flatulence, elevated lipaseUncommon ( to ): Gastroesophageal reflux disease, pancreatitis
Elevated amylase (grade  [greater than  x ULN]: ; grade  [greater than  x ULN]: ) has been reported at  weeks in controlled trials.
Common ( to ): Rash (including with joint pain/stiffness, throat tightness, generalized pruritus, myalgia, fever, erythema, desquamation, mucosal erosions), pruritusUncommon ( to ): Exanthem, lipoatrophy, lipohypertrophy, acquired lipodystrophyRare (less than ): Facial wastingFrequency not reported: Urticarial rash, maculopapular rash, photosensitivity (possible), rash (with joint pain/stiffness, throat tightness, generalized pruritus
Rash (including urticarial rash, maculopapular rash, and possible photosensitivity) has been reported in  of males and  of females using this drug (plus ritonavir) through  weeks of therapy.
The time to onset and duration of rash averaged  and  days, respectively.
Some cases of rash occurred in conjunction with joint pain or stiffness, throat tightness, and generalized pruritus.
Cases of rash (some severe) with myalgia, fever, erythema, desquamation, and mucosal erosions have been reported.
Rash has been reported more often in pediatric patients than in adults.
Common ( to ): Decreased WBC counts, anemia, neutropeniaUncommon ( to ): ThrombocytopeniaFrequency not reported: Bleeding event (not otherwise specified)Protease inhibitor therapy:-Frequency not reported: Increased bleeding (including spontaneous skin hematomas, hemarthrosis) in hemophiliacs
Decreased WBC count (grade  [less than /mcL]: ; grade  [less than /mcL]: ) has been reported at  weeks in controlled trials.
Increased bleeding (including spontaneous skin hematomas and hemarthrosis) in patients with hemophilia type A and B has been associated with protease inhibitors.
In many of the reported cases, treatment with protease inhibitors was continued or restarted and some patients required additional factor VIII.
A causal relationship between protease inhibitor therapy and these episodes has not been established.
Common ( to ): MyalgiaUncommon ( to ): Muscle spasmsFrequency not reported: Muscle cramps, elevated creatine phosphokinase (CPK)Combination antiretroviral therapy:-Frequency not reported: OsteonecrosisProtease inhibitor therapy:-Rare (less than ): Rhabdomyolysis-Frequency not reported: Increased CPK, myalgia, myositis
Cases of fatal and nonfatal intracranial hemorrhage have been reported with this drug (plus ritonavir).
Many of the patients had other medical conditions or were using concomitant medications that may have contributed to or caused these events.
No pattern of abnormal hematologic or coagulation parameters was observed in patients in general or preceding development of intracranial hemorrhage.
An increased risk of intracranial hemorrhage was previously observed in patients with advanced HIV disease/AIDS, such as those treated in clinical trials with this drug.
Common ( to ): Headache, peripheral neuropathyUncommon ( to ): Dizziness, somnolence, intracranial hemorrhageFrequency not reported: Cerebrovascular accident
Common ( to ): Pyrexia, fatigue, decreased weightUncommon ( to ): Influenza-like illness, malaiseFrequency not reported: Asthenia, reactivation of herpes simplex, reactivation of varicella zoster, sepsisAntiretroviral therapy:-Frequency not reported: Increased weight
Common ( to ): InsomniaUncommon ( to ): Sleep disorderFrequency not reported: Depression
Common ( to ): DyspneaFrequency not reported: Bronchitis, cough, nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, pneumonia, epistaxis
Uncommon ( to ): Hypersensitivity reactions
Uncommon ( to ): Renal failureFrequency not reported: Renal insufficiency
Frequency not reported: Immune reconstitution/reactivation syndrome, autoimmune disorders in the setting of immune reconstitution (, Graves' disease, polymyositis, Guillain-Barre syndrome)
It is possible that some side effects of tipranavir may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Bleeding gums
confusion
cough producing mucus
coughing up blood
difficulty with breathing or swallowing
dizziness
fever
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
headache
increased menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding
loss of appetite
nausea or vomiting
nosebleeds
paralysis
prolonged bleeding from cuts
red or black, tarry,or light-colored stools
red or dark brown urine
sudden severe weakness
tightness in the chest
unusual bleeding
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
yellow eyes and skin
Diarrhea
Abdominal or stomach pain
cough
discouragement
fat redistribution
feeling sad or empty
irritability
lack of appetite
lack or loss of strength
loss of interest or pleasure
rash
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping