As well as its needed effects, fibrin sealant topical (the active ingredient contained in Tisseel) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some fibrin sealant topical side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
General side effects have been reported including rare reports of serious adverse events such as paralysis and other compressive complications possibly related to the use of fibrin sealant in combination with resorbable hemostatic agents.
There have also been rare reports of fatalities following the misadministration of topical thrombin.
Hypersensitivity side effects such as anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions including shock have been reported rarely.
Cardiovascular side effects including tachycardia, bradycardia, hypotension, and thromboembolic complications have been reported rarely.
Respiratory side effects including severe dyspnea have been reported rarely.
Dermatologic side effects including flush, urticaria, and pruritus have been reported rarely.
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea have been reported rarely.
A D-dimer is a fragment produced during the degradation of a clot.
Postoperatively increased D-dimers may result at least partly from the degradation of fibrin sealant.
Other side effects including increased D-dimer levels have been reported in a clinical study on cardiovascular surgery, but did not exceed values reported in the literature occurring after this type of surgery.
It is possible that some side effects of Tisseel may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
topical application pad, topical application powder, topical application sheet, topical application sponge
Collection of blood or fluids under the skin
deep, dark purple bruise
itching, pain, redness, or swelling of the skin, wound, or treated area
Blurred vision
chest pain, discomfort, or tightness
confusion
cough
difficulty breathing
difficulty swallowing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fast, slow, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
flushing, redness of the skin
hives, itching, skin rash
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
lightheadedness, dizziness, or fainting
numbness or tingling in the face, arms, or legs
pain in the chest, groin, or legs, especially the calves
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
severe, sudden headache
shortness of breath
slurred speech
sudden loss of coordination
sudden, severe weakness or numbness in the arm or leg
sweating
trouble healing
trouble speaking or walking
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusually warm skin
Burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
nausea