As well as its needed effects, dolutegravir (the active ingredient contained in Tivicay) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some dolutegravir side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Discontinuation due to side effects was reported in  of therapy-naive patients,  of therapy-experienced integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI)-naive patients, and  of therapy-experienced INSTI-experienced patients.
Very common ( or more): Diarrhea (up to ), nausea (up to )Common ( to ): Elevated lipase, abdominal pain, abdominal discomfort, flatulence, upper abdominal pain, vomiting
Grade  and Grade  to  elevations in lipase were reported in up to  and up to  of therapy-naive patients, respectively.
Elevated lipase was reported in  of therapy-experienced INSTI-experienced patients.
Common ( to ): HyperglycemiaFrequency not reported: Fasted lipid values increased (including cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, triglycerides), redistribution/accumulation of body fat (including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement, peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, "cushingoid appearance")
Grade  and Grade  hyperglycemia were reported in up to  and up to  of therapy-naive patients, respectively.
Hyperglycemia and elevated cholesterol were reported in  and  of therapy-experienced INSTI-experienced patients, respectively.
Redistribution/accumulation of body fat has been reported with antiretroviral therapy; causality has not been established.
Common ( to ): Insomnia, abnormal dreams
Grade  and Grade  to  elevations in AST were reported in up to  and up to  of therapy-naive patients, respectively.
Grade  and Grade  to  elevations in ALT were reported in  and up to  of therapy-naive patients, respectively.
Grade  and Grade  to  elevations in total bilirubin were reported in up to  and less than  of therapy-naive patients, respectively.
Elevated ALT and AST were reported in  and  of therapy-experienced INSTI-experienced patients, respectively.
The rates of AST and ALT abnormalities were higher patients coinfected with hepatitis B and/or C virus.
ALT abnormalities (Grade  to ) in hepatitis B and/or C coinfected patients compared with HIV monoinfected patients were reported in  versus  with  mg once a day and  versus  with  mg twice a day.
Liver chemistry elevations consistent with immune reconstitution syndrome were reported in some patients with hepatitis B and/or C at the start of dolutegravir (the active ingredient contained in Tivicay) therapy, especially when antihepatitis therapy was stopped.
Common ( to ): Elevated AST, elevated ALT, elevated total bilirubin, hepatitisFrequency not reported: Liver chemistry elevations consistent with immune reconstitution syndrome
Grade  and Grade  to  elevations in creatine kinase were reported in up to  and up to  of therapy-naive patients, respectively.
Common ( to ): Elevated creatine kinase, myositis
Grade  and Grade  to  reductions in total neutrophils were reported in up to  and  of therapy-naive patients, respectively.
Hematology laboratory abnormality (Grade  to ) was reported in  of therapy-experienced INSTI-experienced patients, with neutropenia  reported most often.
Common ( to ): Decreased total neutrophils, hematology laboratory abnormality
Very common ( or more): Headache (up to )Common ( to ): Dizziness
Common ( to ): Pruritus, rash (includes rash, generalized rash, macular rash, maculopapular rash, pruritic rash, drug eruption)
Increased serum creatinine occurred due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine without affecting renal glomerular function.
Increased serum creatinine was reported within the first  weeks of therapy and remained stable through  to  weeks.
A mean change of  mg/dL (range of - to  mg/dL) was reported after  weeks of therapy in therapy-naive patients.
Common ( to ): Renal impairmentFrequency not reported: Increased serum creatinine (due to inhibition of tubular secretion of creatinine)
Common ( to ): Fatigue
Uncommon ( to ): Hypersensitivity reactions (characterized by rash, constitutional findings, and sometimes organ dysfunction, including liver injury)
Uncommon ( to ): Immune reconstitution syndrome, autoimmune disorders in the setting of immune reconstitution (, Graves' disease, polymyositis, Guillain-Barre syndrome)
It is possible that some side effects of Tivicay may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Black, tarry stools
blistering or peeling skin
bloody urine
burning, dry, or itching eyes
chest pain
chills
cough
dark urine
decreased frequency or amount of urine
discharge or excessive tearing
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
general tiredness and weakness
increased thirst
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
muscle or joint aches
nausea and vomiting
painful or difficult urination
rash with fever
redness, pain, swelling of the eye, eyelid, or inner lining of the eyelid
severe rash
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swelling of the face, fingers, or lower legs
swollen glands
troubled breathing
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
weight gain
yellow eyes and skin
Abdominal or stomach pain or discomfort
headache
itching skin
trouble sleeping
Abnormal dreams
diarrhea
dizziness
Weight gain around your neck, upper back, breast, face, or waist