As well as its needed effects, imipramine (the active ingredient contained in Tofranil) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking imipramine, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking imipramine, get emergency help immediately:
Some imipramine side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most commonly reported side effects were tremors, increased weight, dry mouth, and constipation.
Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Systemic anaphylactic/anaphylactoid reactions
Common (1% to 10%): Confusional states (especially in the elderly), hallucinations, disorientation, delusions, anxiety, restlessness, agitation, insomnia, nightmares, hypomania, exacerbation of psychosis, sleep disorders, emotional instability, swings from depression to hypomania or maniaVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Aggression
Very common (10% or more): Sinus tachycardia, electrocardiogram abnormalities (e.
g.
, ST and T wave changes), hot flushes, orthostatic hypotensionCommon (1% to 10%): Arrhythmias, palpitations, conduction disorders (e.
g.
, widening of QRS complex, bundle branch block, PR changes)Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Cardiac failure, QT interval prolongation, ventricular arrhythmia, ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, torsades de pointes, hypertension, stroke, vasospasmFrequency not reported: Myocardial infarction, heart block, precipitation of congestive heart failure, flushing, collapse, cardiac decompensation, peripheral vasospastic reactions
Very common (10% or more): TremorsCommon (1% to 10%): Dizziness, headache, somnolence, paraesthesiaRare (less than 0.
1%): ConvulsionsVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Myoclonus, extrapyramidal disorder, ataxia, speech disorders, abnormal electroencephalogram, tinnitusFrequency not reported: Numbness, tingling, incoordination, peripheral neuropathy, seizures, drowsiness, nervousness, syncope
Common (1% to 10%): Elevated transaminasesVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Hepatitis (with or without jaundice), acute hepatitis, hepatic necrosisFrequency not reported: Jaundice (simulating obstructive), altered liver function
Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (ADH) secretion syndrome, breast enlargement (female), galactorrhea (female)Frequency not reported: Gynecomastia (male), increased or decreased libido, impotence, testicular swelling
Very rare: (less than 0.
01%): Bone marrow depression (including agranulocytosis, eosinophilia, thrombocytopenia, leucopenia), purpura, petechiae
Very common (10% or more): Dry mouth, constipationCommon (1% to 10%): Nausea, vomitingRare (less than 0.
1%): Sublingual adenitisVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Dental caries, ileus paralytic, stomatitis, abdominal disorders, tongue ulcerationFrequency not reported: Epigastric distress, diarrhea, peculiar taste, abdominal cramps, parotid swelling
Very common (10% or more): Increased weightCommon (1% to 10%): AnorexiaVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Elevation or depression of blood sugar levels, weight lossFrequency not reported: Hyponatremia
Very common (10% or more): HyperhidrosisCommon (1% to 10%): Skin rash, urticaria, allergic dermatitisVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Pruritus, photosensitivity reactions, alopecia, skin hyperpigmentation
Common (1% to 10%): FatigueVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Asthenia, edema (localized or generalized), pyrexia, sudden deathFrequency not reported: Weakness, proneness to falling, tiredness, drug fever
Common (1% to 10%): Micturition disorderVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Urinary retentionFrequency not reported: Dilation of the urinary tract, urinary frequency
Common (1% to 10%): Blurred vision, disturbances of accommodation, decreased lacrimationVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Mydriasis, glaucoma
Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Allergic alveolitis (pneumonitis) with or without eosinophilia
Frequency not reported: Increased risk of bone fractures
It is possible that some side effects of Tofranil may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal or stomach pain
agitation
blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chest pain or discomfort
clay-colored stools
cold sweats
confusion about identity, place, and time
continuing ringing or buzzing or other unexplained noise in the ears
cough or hoarseness
dark urine
decrease in the frequency of urination
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
double vision
dry mouth
false beliefs that cannot be changed by facts
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
feeling, seeing, or hearing things that are not there
feeling that others are watching you or controlling your behavior
feeling that others can hear your thoughts
fever with or without chills
flushed, dry skin
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
hearing loss
hostility
hyperventilation
inability to move the arms, legs, or facial muscles
irritability
itching or rash
lack of coordination
lethargy
loss of balance control
lower back or side pain
mood or mental changes
muscle spasm or jerking of all extremities
muscle trembling, jerking, or stiffness
nightmares
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
painful or difficult urination
pinpoint red or purple spots on the skin
rapid weight gain
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
restlessness
seizures
shakiness and unsteady walk
slow speech
sore throat
stiffness of the limbs
stupor
sweating
swelling of the face, ankles, legs, or hands
talking, feeling, and acting with excitement
trouble sleeping
twisting movements of the body
uncontrolled movements, especially of the face, neck, and back
unusual behavior
unusual tiredness or weakness
weakness in the arms, hands, legs, or feet
yellow eyes or skin
Bluish color of fingernails, lips, skin, palms, or nail beds
cold, clammy skin
decreased awareness or responsiveness
difficult or troubled breathing
disorientation
fast, weak pulse
hallucinations
irregular, fast, slow, or shallow breathing
severe sleepiness
Bigger, dilated, or enlarged pupils (black part of the eye)
black tongue
decreased interest or ability in sexual intercourse
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
enlargement of the breast
hives or welts
increase in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
increased sensitivity of the eyes to light
increased urge to urinate during the night
peculiar taste
redness or other discoloration of the skin
severe sunburn
swelling of the testicles
swelling of the breasts or breast soreness in both females and males
swollen, painful, or tender lymph glands on the side of the face or neck
unexpected or excess milk flow from the breasts
waking to urinate at night