As well as its needed effects, tolazamide may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking tolazamide, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking tolazamide, get emergency help immediately:
Some tolazamide side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most commonly reported adverse reactions have included gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea, epigastric fullness, and heartburn.
Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Disulfiram-like reactionsFrequency not reported: Hypoglycemia  Sulfonylureas: Frequency not reported: Hepatic porphyria
Gastrointestinal disturbances such as nausea, epigastric fullness, and heartburn tend to be dose related and may disappear when dosage is reduced.
Common (1% to 10%): Nausea, epigastric fullness, heartburn
In the University Group Diabetes Program (UGDP) study, cardiovascular mortality rate was approximately 2.
5 times higher in patients treated for 5 to 8 years with diet plus tolbutamide 1.
5 g per day compared with that of patients treated with diet alone.
The UGDP study was a long-term prospective clinical trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of glucose lowering drugs in preventing or delaying vascular complications in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (n=823).
Tolbutamide was stopped based on the increase in cardiovascular mortality; a significant increase in total mortality was not observed, but stopping the drug may have limited the ability to measure that.
In view of the close similarities in mode of action and chemical structure among sulfonylureas, these results may apply to other drug in this class.
Sulfonylureas: Frequency not reported: Increased cardiovascular mortality
Frequency not reported: Hypersensitivity reactions
Hypersensitivity reactions described as skin reactions, e.
g.
pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions occurred in 0.
4% of patients during clinical trials.
These may be transient and may disappear despite continued therapy; however, if skin reactions persist, this drug should be discontinued.
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Dizziness, headache, weakness
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Cholestatic jaundice
Frequency not reported: HyponatremiaSulfonylureas: Frequency not reported: Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Fatigue, malaise, vertigo
Sulfonylureas: Rare (less than 0.
1%): Leukopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, hemolytic anemia, aplastic anemia, pancytopenia
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Allergic skin reactions (pruritus, erythema, urticaria, and morbilliform or maculopapular eruptions) Sulfonylureas: Frequency not reported: Photosensitivity, porphyria cutanea tarda
It is possible that some side effects of tolazamide may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal or stomach pain
chills
clay-colored stools
dark urine
diarrhea
difficulty swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
fever
headache
hives
itching
loss of appetite
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or  tongue
rash
shortness of breath
skin rash
tightness in chest
unpleasant breath odor
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood
wheezing
yellow eyes or skin
Agitation
back, leg, or stomach pains
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in urine or stools
chest pain
coma
confusion
convulsions
cough or hoarseness
decreased urine output
depression
difficulty breathing
fast or irregular heartbeat
fatigue
fever with or without chills
fluid-filled skin blisters
general body swelling
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
hostility
increased thirst
irritability
itching of the skin
lethargy
light-colored stools
lower back or side pain
muscle pain or cramps
muscle twitching
nausea or vomiting
nosebleeds
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on skin
rapid weight gain
seizures
sensitivity to the sun
skin thinness
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stupor
swelling of the face, ankles, or hands
swollen or painful glands
unusual bleeding or bruising
Anxiety
cold sweats
cool, pale skin
increased hunger
nervousness
nightmares
shakiness
slurred speech
Indigestion
passing of gas
Feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
sensation of spinning
Redness or other discoloration of skin
severe sunburn