Commonly reported side effects of tolcapone include: diarrhea, dyskinesia, insomnia, nausea, orthostatic hypotension, vomiting, confusion, dizziness, dystonia, headache, muscle cramps, anorexia, and increased dream activity.
Other side effects include: syncope, abdominal pain, constipation, falling, fatigue, diaphoresis, urine discoloration, and xerostomia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, tolcapone may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking tolcapone, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following side effects occur while taking tolcapone, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some tolcapone side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
After you stop taking this drug, it is possible that you may still experience side effects that need medical attention.
If you notice any of the following side effects check with your doctor immediately:
In general, tolcapone was well tolerated in clinical trials with most adverse events being mild to moderate in severity.
Dyskinesia and other dopaminergic-related effects were the most frequently reported adverse events in patients with motor fluctuations.
Diarrhea was the most common nondopaminergic adverse event, occurring in up to  of patients who received tolcapone, and necessitating discontinuation of treatment in approximately  to  of patients.
Hepatic side effects have included severe liver damage, including fulminant liver failure resulting in death.
Three cases of fatal fulminant hepatic failure have been reported from more than , patient years of worldwide use.
Increased alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) have also been reported.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea ( to ), anorexia ( to ), diarrhea ( to ), vomiting ( to ), constipation ( to ), xerostomia ( to ), abdominal pain ( to ), dyspepsia ( to ), flatulence ( to ), and dry mouth.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included dystonia ( to ), muscle cramps ( to ), stiffness , arthritis ( to ), and hypertonia .
Respiratory side effects have included upper respiratory tract infection ( to ), dyspnea , and sinus congestion ( to ).
Genitourinary side effects have included urine discoloration ( to ), urinary tract infection , and micturition disorder ( to ).
Cardiovascular side effects have included chest pain ( to ), hypotension , chest discomfort ( to ), and orthostatic symptoms.
Dermatologic side effects have included dermal bleeding , alopecia , and increased sweating.
At least one case of vitiligo has also been reported.
A case report of vitiligo has been reported in a -year-old man with Parkinson's disease one week after the start of therapy with tolcapone  mg per day.
Oncologic side effects have included tumors of the skin  and tumors of the uterus .
Ocular side effects have included cataracts  and inflamed eyes .
Nervous system side effects have included dyskinesia ( to ), sleep disorder ( to ), excessive dreaming ( to ), somnolence ( to ), orthostatic complaints , dizziness ( to ), confusion ( to ), headache ( to ), hallucination ( to ), syncope ( to ), hyperkinesia ( to ), paresthesia ( to ), hypokinesia ( to ), loss of balance ( to ), mental deficiency , agitation , hyperactivity , and neuroleptic malignant-like syndrome.
Akathisia, insomnia and sleep disturbances have also been reported.
The neuroleptic malignant-like syndrome was reported in an elderly patient.
It was caused by abrupt withdrawal of tolcapone.
Other side effects have included fatigue ( to ), falling ( to ), increased sweating ( to ), influenza ( to ), neck pain , burning ( to ), irritability , malaise , panic reaction , euphoria , and fever .
It is possible that some side effects of tolcapone may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Dark urine
itching
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
nausea (continuing)
tenderness in upper right part of abdomen
unusual drowsiness, dullness, or feeling sluggish
unusual tiredness or weakness 
yellow eyes or skin
Abdominal pain
cough
diarrhea
dizziness
dizziness or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position
drowsiness
fainting
fever
hallucinations (seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there)
headache
nasal congestion (stuffy nose)
nausea
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
trouble in sleeping
twitching, twisting, or other unusual body movements
vomiting
Absence of or decrease in body movement
blood in urine
chest pain
chills
confusion
falling
general feeling of discomfort or illness
hyperactivity
loss of balance control
muscle pain
troubled breathing
Agitation
bloody or cloudy urine
burning of feet
burning, prickling, or tingling sensations
chest discomfort
difficult or painful urination
difficulty in thinking or concentrating
frequent urge to urinate
irritability
joint pain, redness, or swelling
low blood pressure
muscle cramps
neck pain
stiffness
Constipation
dryness of mouth
excessive dreaming
increased sweating
Bleeding
difficulty in sleeping
excessive muscle tone
fever
heartburn
gas
muscle stiffness
muscle tension or tightness
trouble in holding or releasing urine
Confusion
fever
muscle rigidity