Commonly reported side effects of tolvaptan include: polyuria, increased thirst, pollakiuria, and xerostomia.
Other side effects include: constipation, fever, hyperglycemia, increased serum alanine aminotransferase, and anorexia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, tolvaptan may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking tolvaptan, check with your doctor immediately:
Some tolvaptan side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Common (1% to 10%): Intracardiac thrombus, ventricular fibrillation, orthostatic hypotension
Very common (10% or more): Dry mouth (up to 13%), nauseaCommon (1% to 10%): Constipation, ischemic colitis, gastrointestinal bleeding, diarrhea
The most frequently reported side effects included thirst, dry mouth (up to 13%), asthenia, constipation, pollakiuria or polyuria and hyperglycemia.
Common (1% to 10%): Blood in urineUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Urethral hemorrhage, vaginal hemorrhage
Common (1% to 10%): Prolonged prothrombin time, disseminated intravascular coagulation
Common (1% to 10%): Rhabdomyolysis
Common (1% to 10%): Cerebrovascular accident, syncope, dizziness, headacheUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): DysgeusiaPostmarketing reports: Osmotic demyelination syndrome
Very common (10% or more): Pollakiuria and polyuria (11%)Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Renal impairment
Common (1% to 10%): Pulmonary embolism, respiratory failure
Common (1% to 10%): Hyperglycemia, anorexia, diabetic ketoacidosis, dehydration, hyperkalemia, decreased appetite, creatinine increased, hypernatremia, hypoglycemia, hyperuricemia
Common (1% to 10%): Ecchymosis, pruritusUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Pruritic rash
Common: Alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, bilirubin increased
Postmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylactic shock and generalized rash
Very common (10% or more): Thirst (up to 18%)Common (1% to 10%): Asthenia, pyrexia, malaise
It is possible that some side effects of tolvaptan may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal or stomach pain
blurred vision
dry mouth
flushed, dry skin
frequent urination
fruit-like breath odor
increased hunger
increased thirst
increased urination
increased volume of pale, dilute urine
nausea
sweating
thirst
troubled breathing
unexplained weight loss
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Abdominal or stomach tenderness
anxiety
blood in the urine
bloody stools
blue lips, fingernails, or skin
bruising
chest pain
confusion
cough
coughing or vomiting blood
dark-colored urine
dizziness or lightheadedness
fainting
fast, slow, irregular or shallow heartbeat
fever
irregular, fast or slow, or shallow breathing
loss of consciousness
muscle cramps or spasms
muscle pain or stiffness
pain, redness, or swelling in the arm or leg
persistent bleeding or oozing from puncture sites, mouth, or nose
pink or red urine
rash
rectal bleeding
shortness of breath
sudden shortness of breath or troubled breathing
sweating
vaginal bleeding
Difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
lack or loss of strength
Loss of appetite
weight loss