As well as its needed effects, tocainide (the active ingredient contained in Tonocard) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking tocainide, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some tocainide side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Tocainide is generally well tolerated.
Minor, transient, dose-dependent side effects have occurred frequently (up to ) and usually involved nervous system or gastrointestinal symptoms.
Approximately  of patients discontinued tocainide (the active ingredient contained in Tonocard) because of adverse effects.
The incidence of side effects increased when plasma tocainide concentrations exceeded  mcg/mL.
Tremor may indicate that the maximum dosage is being approached.
General adverse reactions affecting the body as a whole included fatigue ( to ) and hot or cold sensations ( to ).
Cinchonism, asthenia, and malaise have been reported in less than  of patients.
Gastrointestinal side effects are the most frequently observed.
Nausea, vomiting, and anorexia have occurred in  to  of patients.
Dosage reductions or administration with food, which will not affect tocainide (the active ingredient contained in Tonocard) plasma concentrations, helps minimize these side effects.
Diarrhea has been reported in  of patients.
Pancreatitis, abdominal discomfort, constipation, dysphagia, stomatitis, taste alteration, dry mouth and thirst were reported in less than  of patients.
Nervous system side effects have occurred in  to  of patients on chronic therapy.
Lightheadedness/dizziness/vertigo ( to ), tremors ( to ), paresthesia ( to ), coordination difficulties , and headache ( to ) have been reported.
Neurologic side effects are usually dose-related and resolve with dosage reductions.
Adverse effects such as coma, seizures, myasthenia gravis, dysarthria, decreased mental acuity/impaired memory, increased stuttering/slurred speech, and local anesthesia have been reported in less than  of patients.
Tocainide, like lidocaine, crosses the blood-brain barrier and may produce neurotoxicity, including seizures.
Tremor and paresthesias indicate a maximum tolerable dosage.
Cardiovascular side effects such as exacerbation of old or induction of new arrhythmias, including ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation, have occurred in  of patients.
Although tocainide (the active ingredient contained in Tonocard) has a minimal effect on the sinus node, cases of sinus arrest and SA block have been reported, particularly in patients with sick sinus syndrome.
Exacerbation of congestive heart failure occurred in  to  of patients.
Bradycardia , hypotension , and chest pain  have been reported.
Angina, hypertension, claudication, increased QRS duration, extension of acute myocardial infarction, vaso-vagal episodes, syncope, and edema have occurred.
Tocainide-associated blood dyscrasias have been reported most often during the first  to  weeks of therapy.
Hematologic side effects of tocainide have been rare ( of patients), but serious reactions and death have occurred.
Aplastic anemia and agranulocytosis have been associated with tocainide, some were irreversible and resulted in death.
Weekly complete blood count analysis is recommended during the first three months of therapy and monthly, thereafter.
Bone marrow depression and granuloma, hemolytic anemia, anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and eosinophilia have been associated with tocainide therapy in less in  of patients.
Septicemia and septic shock have been reported.
Hypersensitivity reactions manifesting as rash, fever, joint pain, eosinophilia, or abnormal liver function tests have been reported in up to  of patients.
Stevens-Johnson syndrome has been associated with tocainide (the active ingredient contained in Tonocard)   Interstitial pneumonitis is a rare side effect of tocainide and may be initiated by a hypersensitivity mechanism.
Data from  reports of severe skin reactions between  to , indicated  of the reactions occurred during the first  weeks of therapy.
Dermatologic side effects occurred in  to  of patients.
Serious reactions have included Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, rash with stomatitis, or rash requiring or prolonging hospitalization.
Overall, the incidence of serious skin reactions is  to  per , prescriptions of tocainide, with fatalities in  per , prescriptions.
Diaphoresis has been reported in up to  of patients.
Psychiatric side effects have included confusion/disorientation/hallucinations ( to ), altered mood/awareness ( to ), nervousness , and anxiety ( to ).
Psychosis/disturbances, depression, agitation, insomnia/sleep disturbances, and dream abnormalities have been reported in less than  of patients.
Respiratory side effects, although rare, have resulted in death.
Tocainide-associated pulmonary fibrosis has occurred,  most often in seriously ill patients.
Symptoms of dyspnea and cough usually presented within  to  weeks of initiation of therapy.
Interstitial infiltrates were seen on radiologic examination.
Respiratory arrest, pulmonary edema, fibrosing alveolitis, pneumonia, interstitial pneumonitis , dyspnea, hiccough, yawning, and smell alterations have been reported in less than  of patients.
Evidence of a hypersensitivity mechanism has been reported for tocainide-associated pulmonary fibrosis.
Hepatic side effects usually have been mild and transient, manifesting as slightly elevated liver function tests.
Hepatitis and jaundice have been reported in less than  of patients.
A -year-old man with a history of coronary artery bypass grafting and short runs of ventricular tachycardia was given tocainide (the active ingredient contained in Tonocard)  mg every  hours.
Three weeks after initiation of therapy he developed unexplained malaise, chills, sweats, and fever and was given oral antibiotics.
His physical exam was noncontributory; laboratory tests revealed a white blood cell count of ,/mm  An evaluation of typical and atypical infectious pathogens was negative.
A CT scan noted a right pleural effusion and hepatosplenomegaly.
Bone marrow aspiration revealed numerous noncaseating granuloma, decreased iron stores, and  cellularity.
A serum ANA was positive at : (speckled pattern).
Resolution of all symptoms occurred within one week of discontinuing tocainide.
Rechallenge was not attempted.
Immunologic and clinical changes consistent with a lupus-like syndrome have been reported.
Musculoskeletal side effects such as arthritis/arthralgia  and myalgia , and ataxia ( to ) have been reported.
Side effects occurring in less than  of patients included muscle cramps/twitches/spasms, neck pain or pain radiating from the neck, and shoulder pressure.
Ocular disturbances have included blurred vision in up to  of patients.
Nystagmus occurred less frequently .
Ototoxicity characterized by vertigo and tinnitus/hearing loss has occurred in  and  of patients, respectively.
Rare incidences of earache have been reported.
Genitourinary side effects including urinary retention, polyuria, and increased diuresis have occurred in less than  of patients.
It is possible that some side effects of Tonocard may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Trembling or shaking
Blisters on skin
cough or shortness of breath
fever or chills
irregular heartbeats
peeling or scaling of skin 
skin rash (severe)
sores in mouth
unusual bleeding or bruising
Dizziness or lightheadedness
loss of appetite
nausea
Blurred vision
confusion
headache
nervousness
numbness or tingling of fingers and toes
skin rash
sweating
vomiting 