Common side effects of Toviaz include: xerostomia.
Other side effects include: constipation.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, fesoterodine (the active ingredient contained in Toviaz) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some fesoterodine side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Most adverse events of dry mouth and constipation were mild to moderate in intensity.
Gastrointestinal side effects at daily doses of  mg and  mg, respectively, have included dry mouth ( vs.
), constipation ( vs.
), dyspepsia ( vs.
), nausea ( vs.
), and upper abdominal pain ( vs.
).
Immunologic side effects at daily doses of  mg and  mg, respectively, have included urinary tract infection ( vs.
) and upper respiratory tract infection ( vs.
).
Ocular side effects at daily doses of  mg and  mg, respectively, have included dry eyes ( vs.
).
Genitourinary side effects at daily doses of  mg and  mg, respectively, have included dysuria ( vs.
) and urinary retention ( vs.
).
Respiratory side effects at daily doses of  mg and  mg, respectively, have included cough ( vs.
) and dry throat ( vs.
).
General side effects at daily doses of  mg and  mg, respectively, have included peripheral edema ( vs.
).
Musculoskeletal side effects at daily doses of  mg and  mg, respectively, have included back pain ( vs.
).
Nervous system side effects at daily doses of  mg and  mg, respectively, have included insomnia ( vs.
).
Hepatic side effects at daily doses of  mg and  mg, respectively, have included increases in alanine aminotransferase (ALT,  vs.
) and gamma glutamyltransferase (GGT,  vs.
).
Dermatologic side effects at daily doses of  mg and  mg, respectively, have included rash ( vs.
).
Postmarketing dermatologic side effects have included pruritus and urticaria.
The increase in heart rate correlates with increasing dose.
In one study, the mean increase in heart rate associated with a dose of  mg/day and  mg/day of fesoterodine (the active ingredient contained in Toviaz) was  beats/minute and  beats/minute, respectively, compared to placebo.
Cardiovascular side effects have included increases in heart rate.
Angioedema of the face, lips, tongue, and/or larynx has been reported with fesoterodine (the active ingredient contained in Toviaz)   In some cases angioedema occurred after the first dose.
Angioedema associated with upper airway swelling may be life-threatening.
If involvement of the tongue, hypopharynx, or larynx occurs, fesoterodine should be promptly discontinued and appropriate therapy and/or measures to ensure a patent airway should be promptly provided.
It is possible that some side effects of Toviaz may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
dry mouth
Bladder pain
bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
bloody or cloudy urine
body aches or pain
burning while urinating
chills
cough
decrease in frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
difficult, burning, or painful urination
difficulty in breathing
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
dry eyes
ear congestion
fever
frequent urge to urinate
headache
loss of voice
lower back or side pain
nasal congestion
rapid weight gain
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
tingling of the hands or feet
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight gain or loss
Acid or sour stomach
back pain
belching
dry throat
heartburn
indigestion
nausea
rash
sleeplessness
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
trouble sleeping
unable to sleep
upper abdominal pain