Side effects include:
Atrial fibrillation,  hypotension,  MI,     atrial flutter,  ventricular extrasystoles,  tachycardia,  ventricular tachycardia,  heart failure,  pericarditis,  peripheral edema,  fever,  infection,  nausea,  lung disorder,  pleural effusion,  atelectasis.
In general, aprotinin (the active ingredient contained in Trasylol) was generally well tolerated in clinical studies with  of patients receiving aprotinin reporting an adverse effect vs.
of patients receiving placebo therapy.
The side effects reported in these clinical studies were ones which are frequently associated with cardiac surgery thus making it difficult to determine a definite causal relationship with aprotinin.
A retrospective review of patient records with documented reexposure to aprotinin (the active ingredient contained in Trasylol) reported a  incidence in hypersensitivity/anaphylactic reactions.
Two patients, out of  records reviewed, died  hours and  days after experiencing a hypersensitivity/anaphylactic reaction, respectively.
A causal relationship with aprotinin was not determined.
This review also reported the chance of a hypersensitivity/anaphylactic side effect is approximately  in cases where reexposure occurs within  months of initial aprotinin administration, and approximately  for reexposure greater than  months from initial administration.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included skin eruptions, itching, dyspnea, nausea, tachycardia and fatal anaphylactic shock with circulatory failure.
Cardiovascular side effects for aprotinin (the active ingredient contained in Trasylol) in relation to placebo therapy have included atrial fibrillation ( vs.
), hypotension ( vs.
), myocardial infarct ( each), atrial flutter ( vs.
), ventricular extrasystoles( vs.
), tachycardia ( vs.
), ventricular tachycardia ( vs.
), heart failure ( vs.
), pericarditis ( each), peripheral edema ( each), hypertension ( vs.
), arrhythmia ( vs.
), supraventricular tachycardia ( vs.
), atrial arrhythmia ( each), thrombosis ( vs.
), shock ( vs.
), cerebrovascular accident ( vs.
), thrombophlebitis ( vs.
), and deep thrombophlebitis ( vs.
).
Ventricular fibrillation, heart arrest, bradycardia, congestive heart failure, hemorrhage, bundle branch block, myocardial ischemia, ventricular tachycardia, heart block, pericardial effusion, ventricular arrhythmia, shock, and pulmonary hypertension have been reported in  to  of patients.
Occlusion of vascular grafts, including coronary-bypass grafts, has also been reported.
In addition to being reported in clinical trials, thrombosis has been reported in uncontrolled trials, compassionate use trials, and spontaneous postmarketing reporting.
In these reports the term thrombosis was used to describe any one of the following conditions: thrombosis, occlusion, arterial thrombosis, pulmonary thrombosis, coronary occlusion, embolus, pulmonary embolus, thrombophlebitis, deep thrombophlebitis, cerebrovascular accident, and cerebral embolism.
Myocardial infarction is reported to have an incidence of  in patients treated with aprotinin versus  in patients treated with placebo.
This difference in incidence rates is not statistically significant.
A multicenter, multinational study reported an increase in the risk of graft closure (p=) in patients undergoing primary CABG surgery treated with aprotinin versus placebo.
However, when the study was repeated in U.
S.
centers only, there was no statistically significant difference in graft closure rates of aprotinin treated patients versus patients treated with placebo.
Other side effects for aprotinin (the active ingredient contained in Trasylol) in relation to placebo therapy have included fever ( vs.
), infection ( vs.
), and chest pain ( each).
Sepsis, death, multi-system organ failure, and immune system disorder have been reported in  to  of patients.
Hemoperitoneum has also been reported.
Hematologic side effects for aprotinin (the active ingredient contained in Trasylol) in relation to placebo therapy have included anemia ( vs.
).
Leukocytosis, thrombocytopenia, coagulation disorder (including disseminated intravascular coagulation), and decreased prothrombin have been reported in  to  of patients.
In addition, severe diffuse venous thromboembolism has been associated with aprotinin administration in patients positive for factor V Leiden.
Respiratory side effects for aprotinin (the active ingredient contained in Trasylol) in relation to placebo therapy have included lung disorder ( each), pleural effusion ( vs.
), atelectasis ( vs.
), dyspnea ( each), pneumothorax ( each), asthma ( vs.
), hypoxia ( vs.
), lung edema ( vs.
), and pulmonary embolus ( vs.
).
Pneumonia, apnea, increased cough, and lung edema have been reported in  to  of patients.
Renal side effects for aprotinin (the active ingredient contained in Trasylol) in relation to placebo therapy have included abnormal kidney function ( vs.
), kidney failure ( vs.
), acute kidney failure ( vs.
), and kidney tubular necrosis ( vs.
).
Metabolic side effects for aprotinin (the active ingredient contained in Trasylol) in relation to placebo therapy have included increase in creatine phosphokinase ( vs.
).
Hyperglycemia, hypokalemia, hypervolemia and acidosis have been reported in  to  of patients.
Hepatic side effects for aprotinin (the active ingredient contained in Trasylol) in relation to placebo therapy have included abnormal liver function tests ( vs.
).
Jaundice and hepatic failure have also been reported in  to  of patients.
Nervous system side effects for aprotinin (the active ingredient contained in Trasylol) in relation to placebo therapy have included confusion ( each), insomnia ( vs.
), and asthenia ( each).
Agitation, dizziness, anxiety, and convulsion have been reported in  to  of patients.
Nonspecific musculoskeletal side effects have been reported in  of patients receiving aprotinin (the active ingredient contained in Trasylol) versus  receiving placebo therapy.
Arthralgia has been reported in  to  of patients receiving aprotinin.
Gastrointestinal side effects for aprotinin (the active ingredient contained in Trasylol) in relation to placebo therapy have included nausea ( vs.
), constipation ( vs.
), vomiting ( vs.
) and diarrhea ( vs.
).
Dyspepsia and gastrointestinal hemorrhage have been reported in  to  of patients.
Genitourinary side effects for aprotinin (the active ingredient contained in Trasylol) in relation to placebo therapy have included urinary retention ( each) and urinary tract infection ( each).
Oliguria has been reported in  to  of patients.
Dermatologic side effects for aprotinin (the active ingredient contained in Trasylol) in relation to placebo therapy have included rash ( each).
Skin discoloration has also been reported.
It is possible that some side effects of Trasylol may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.