As well as its needed effects, ethionamide (the active ingredient contained in Trecator-SC) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking ethionamide, check with your doctor immediately:
Some ethionamide side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Gastrointestinal side effects are the most common side effects of ethionamide (the active ingredient contained in Trecator-SC) and may be dose-related.
They have included nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain excessive salivation, metallic taste, stomatitis, anorexia, and weight loss.
Approximately one-half of patients cannot tolerate 1 gram as a single dose.
Nervous system side effects have included psychotic disturbances, mental depression, drowsiness, dizziness, restlessness, headache, peripheral neuritis, and a pellagra-like syndrome.
Concomitant pyridoxine has been recommended to prevent or relieve neurotoxic effects.
Ocular side effects have rarely included optic neuritis, diplopia, and blurred vision.
Hepatic side effects have included transient increases in serum bilirubin, SGOT, SGPT, and hepatitis with or without jaundice.
Hypersensitivity reactions have rarely included rash, photosensitivity, thrombocytopenia, and purpura.
Metabolic side effects have included hypoglycemia and hypothyroidism.
Genitourinary side effects have included gynecomastia and impotence.
Dermatologic side effects have included rash and acne.
Hematologic side effects have included thrombocytopenia and purpura.
Cardiovascular side effects have included postural hypotension.
It is possible that some side effects of Trecator-SC may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Clumsiness or unsteadiness
confusion
mental depression
numbness, tingling, burning, or pain in the hands and feet
yellow eyes or skin
Blindness or vision changes
blue-yellow color blindness
blurred vision or loss of vision, with or without eye pain
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, painful, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
changes in menstrual periods
coldness
decreased sexual ability (in males)
decreased vision
difficulty in concentrating
dry, puffy skin
fast heartbeat
fever
hives, itching, or rash
hoarseness
increased hunger
increased sensitivity of the skin to sunlight
irritation
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
redness or other discoloration of the skin
severe sunburn
shakiness
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, hands, or feet
swelling of the front part of the neck
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing or swallowing
weakness in the hands or feet
weight gain
Chills
cold sweats
coma
cool, pale skin
dark urine
dizziness
general tiredness and weakness
headache
light-colored stools
nausea and vomiting
nightmares
seizures
slurred speech
unusual tiredness or weakness
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
yellow eyes and skin
Abdominal or stomach pain
diarrhea
increased watering of the mouth
loss of appetite
metallic taste
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
weight loss
Blemishes on the skin
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
enlargement of the breasts (in males)
inability to have or keep an erection
loss in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
pimples