As well as its needed effects, insulin degludec (the active ingredient contained in Tresiba) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking insulin degludec, check with your doctor immediately:
Some insulin degludec side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most commonly reported adverse reactions include hypoglycemia, allergic reactions, injection site reactions, lipodystrophy, pruritus, rash, edema, and weight gain.
Weight gain, attributed to the anabolic effects of insulin, has been reported.
In -week clinical trials, an average weight gain of  kg and  kg was reported in patients with type  diabetes and type  diabetes, respectively.
Very common ( or more): HypoglycemiaFrequency not reported: Weight gain
In clinical trials, peripheral edema was reported in  and  of patients with type  diabetes and type  diabetes, respectively.
Common ( to ): Peripheral edema
Common ( to ): Injection site reactions
Injection site reactions have included injection site hematoma, pain, hemorrhage, erythema, nodules, swelling, discoluration, pruritus, warmth, and injection site mass.
These reactions are usually mild and transient and disappear with continued treatment.
Uncommon ( to ): Hypersensitivity (manifested with swelling of tongue and lips, diarrhea, nausea, tiredness, and itching) and urticaria
Uncommon ( to ): Lipodystrophy, urticaria
The incidence of anti-insulin degludec (the active ingredient contained in Tresiba) antibodies has not been established.
The detection of antibodies is dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay and may be influenced by several factors such as assay methodology, sample handling, timing of sample collection, concomitant medications, and underlying disease.
Therefore, comparison of the incidence of antibodies may be misleading.
In a study in patients with type  diabetes, almost  of patients were positive for anti-insulin antibodies at least once during the studies, including almost  at baseline.
Frequency not reported: Anti-insulin antibodies
Very common ( or more): Nasopharyngitis , upper respiratory tract infection Common ( to ): Sinusitis
Very common ( or more): Headache 
Common ( to ): Gastroenteritis, diarrhea
It is possible that some side effects of Tresiba may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
rapid weight gain
tingling of the hands or feet
unusual weight gain or loss
Anxiety
blurred vision
chills
cold sweats
confusion
convulsions
cool, pale skin
cough
decreased urine
depression
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
dry mouth
fast heartbeat
headache
hives, itching, or skin rash
increased hunger
increased thirst
irregular heartbeat
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
muscle pain or cramps
nausea or vomiting
nightmares
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
shakiness
slurred speech
sweating
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
Abdominal or stomach pain
body aches or pain
diarrhea
dry mouth
ear congestion
fever
headache
loss of voice
nasal congestion
nausea or vomiting
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site
redistribution or accumulation of body fat