Commonly reported side effects of tretinoin include: pleural effusion, dyspnea, edema, fever, hypotension, leukocytosis, weight gain, headache, hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia, increased liver enzymes, nausea, visual disturbance, and vomiting.
Other side effects include: pulmonary infiltrates.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, tretinoin may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking tretinoin, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following side effects occur while taking tretinoin, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some tretinoin side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Headache, fever, weakness, and fatigue are seldom permanent and will not usually require any interruption in therapy.
In general, almost all patients experience some tretinoin related toxicity including headache , fever , weakness, and fatigue.
General effects related to either tretinoin or to the disease condition acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) have been reported to include malaise , shivering , hemorrhage , infections , peripheral edema , pain , chest discomfort , edema , weight increase , weight decrease , flank pain , cellulitis , facial edema , fluid imbalance , pallor , lymph disorders , acidosis , hypothermia , and ascites .
Other side effects include a retinoic-acid-APL (RA-APL) syndrome characterized by fever, dyspnea, weight gain, radiographic pulmonary infiltrates and pleural or pericardial effusions, which has been reported in approximately  of patients treated with tretinoin.
Impaired myocardial contractility and episodic hypotension have been reported occasionally with this syndrome.
Several fatalities have been reported due to multiorgan failure.
Pseudotumor cerebri has also been reported.
Side effects including isolated cases of erythema nodosum, basophilia and hyperhistaminemia, Sweet's syndrome, organomegaly, and hypercalcemia have been reported rarely.
Due to progressive hypoxia which can occur with RA-APL syndrome, endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation have been required in some cases.
High dose steroids (dexamethasone  mg intravenously administered every twelve hours for three days or until the resolution of symptoms) given at the first signs suggestive of the RA-APL syndrome (unexplained fever, dyspnea, and/or weight gain, abnormal chest auscultatory findings or radiographic abnormalities) have been reported to appear to reduce morbidity and mortality.
High dose steroids should be initiated immediately regardless of the leukocyte count.
However, most patients do not require discontinuation of tretinoin therapy during treatment of the RA-APL syndrome.
Approximately  of patients develop a rapidly evolving leukocytosis.
Rapidly evolving leukocytosis has been associated with a higher risk of life-threatening complications.
Early signs of pseudotumor cerebri have been reported to include papilledema, headache, nausea, vomiting, and visual disturbances.
Hematologic side effects including a reversible hypercholesterolemia and/or hypertriglyceridemia (up to ), rapidly evolving leukocytosis , and disseminated intravascular coagulation  have been reported.
Several cases of thrombocytosis have also been reported.
Rapidly evolving leukocytosis has been associated with a higher risk of life-threatening complications.
Although hypercholesterolemia and/or hypertriglyceridemia have been reversible upon the completion of treatment, venous thrombosis and myocardial infarction have been reported in patients who ordinarily are at low risk for these complications.
Liver function tests should be monitored closely during treatment.
Temporary discontinuation of therapy may be appropriate if liver test results reach greater than five times the upper limit of normal values.
Hepatic side effects including elevated liver function tests ( to ), hepatosplenomegaly , hepatitis , and unspecified liver disorder  have been reported.
Dermatologic side effects including skin/mucous membrane dryness , rash , pruritus , increased sweating , alopecia , and skin changes  have been reported.
Musculoskeletal side effects including bone pain  and bone inflammation  have been reported.
Isolated cases of myositis have also been reported.
Gastrointestinal side effects including nausea/vomiting , GI hemorrhage , abdominal pain , mucositis , other gastrointestinal disorders , diarrhea , constipation , dyspepsia , anorexia , abdominal distention , and ulcer  have been reported.
Isolated cases of pancreatitis (including one case of fatal acute pancreatitis) have also been reported.
Ocular side effects including visual disturbances , ocular disorders , changed visual acuity , and visual field defects  have been reported.
Local side effects including injection site reactions  have been reported.
The majority of respiratory side effects with the use of tretinoin are symptoms of the retinoic-acid-APL (RA-APL) syndrome .
This syndrome is charactered by radiographic pulmonary infiltrates and pleural or pericardial effusions among other things.
Respiratory system effects including upper respiratory tract disorders , dyspnea , respiratory insufficiency , pleural effusion , pneumonia , rales , expiratory wheezing , lower respiratory tract disorders , pulmonary infiltration , bronchial asthma , pulmonary edema , larynx edema , and unspecified pulmonary disease  have been reported.
Due to progressive hypoxia related to RA-APL, endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation have been required in some cases.
Otic side effects  have been reported.
Hearing loss and other unspecified auricular disorders  including irreversible hearing loss (less than ) have also been reported.
Cardiovascular side effects including arrhythmias , flushing , hypotension , hypertension , phlebitis , cardiac failure , cardiac arrest , myocardial infarction , enlarged heart , heart murmur , ischemia , stroke , myocarditis , pericarditis , pulmonary hypertension , and secondary cardiomyopathy  have been reported.
Cases of thrombosis (both venous and arterial) involving various sites have been reported rarely.
Several cases of vasculitis have also been reported.
Nervous system side effects including dizziness , paresthesias , anxiety , insomnia , depression , confusion , cerebral hemorrhage , intracranial hypertension , agitation , hallucination , abnormal gait , agnosia , aphasia , asterixis , cerebellar edema , cerebellar disorders , convulsions , coma , CNS depression , dysarthria , encephalopathy , facial paralysis , hemiplegia , hyporeflexia , hypotaxia , no light reflux , neurologic reaction , spinal cord disorder , tremor , leg weakness , unconsciousness , dementia , forgetfulness , somnolence , and slow speech  have been reported.
Genitourinary side effects including renal insufficiency , dysuria , acute renal failure , micturition frequency , renal tubular necrosis , enlarged prostate , and genital ulceration have been reported.
Oncologic side effects have been reported in animals.
Animal studies have reported that tretinoin increased the rate of diethylnitrosamine-induced liver adenomas and carcinomas.
It is possible that some side effects of tretinoin may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Black, tarry stools
bleeding 
blistering
bloody stools 
bone pain
burning
coldness
difficulty in moving
discomfort or pain in chest
enlarged heart
feeling of pressure
fever
hives
infection 
inflammation
joint pain 
lumps
numbness
paleness of skin
rash
redness
scaring
seizures
shortness of breath, troubled breathing, tightness in chest, or wheezing
soreness
stinging
sweating increased
swelling 
swollen joints
tenderness
tingling
ulceration
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds 
warmness at site
weight gain (occurring together with any of the other symptoms listed before)
Blue lips and fingernails
convulsions (seizures)
difficulty in speaking, slow speech, or inability to speak
faintness
feeling of heaviness in chest
headache (severe) 
inability to move arms, legs, or muscles of the face
nausea and vomiting (occurring together with a headache)
no blood pressure or pulse
pain in back or left arm
painful, red lumps under the skin, mostly on the legs
prominent superficial veins over affected area
stopping of heart
unconsciousness
vision problems (occurring together with a headache)
warmth
Any change in vision (not occurring with a headache)
coughing, sneezing, sore throat, and stuffy or runny nose
cracked lips
crusting, redness, pain, or sores in mouth or nose
decreased urination
earache or feeling of fullness in the ear
increase or decrease in blood pressure
irregular heartbeat
mental depression
pain in stomach, side, abdomen or back
pain and swelling in leg or foot
skin rash
swelling of abdomen (stomach area)
swelling of face, fingers, hands, feet, or lower legs
Bone swelling
cramping or pain in stomach (severe)
difficult or painful urination
drowsiness (very severe and continuing)
hallucinations (seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there)
hearing loss
heartburn, indigestion, or nausea (severe and continuing)
mood, mental, or personality changes
pain in lower back or side 
swollen area that feels sore and tender
yellow eyes or skin
Acid or sour stomach
agitation
anxiety
belching
blurred vision
bloating
burning, crawling, or tingling feeling in the skin
chills
confusion
constipation 
darkened urine
diarrhea 
dizziness
dryness of skin, mouth, or nose
fast heartbeat
flushing
general feeling of discomfort or illness
hair loss
headache (mild and not occurring together with other side effects)
indigestion
irritability
itching of skin
loss of appetite
mood or mental changes
muscle pain 
nausea and vomiting (not occurring together with a headache)
shivering
trouble sleeping
weakness
weight loss
Anxiety and restlessness (occurring together)
clumsiness or unsteadiness when walking
difficulty sleeping
disorientation
forgetfulness
frequent urination
lethargy
lightheadedness
low body temperature
redness, soreness or itching skin
sores, welting or blisters
sores on genitals
swelling of feet or lower legs 
thirst
trembling, sometimes with a flapping movement
weak or feeble pulse
weakness in legs