As well as its needed effects, diphtheria and tetanus toxoids / pertussis, acellular may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some diphtheria and tetanus toxoids / pertussis, acellular side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Local side effects have included erythema, swelling, tenderness, and pain.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included rare reports of anaphylactic reactions (ie, hives, swelling of the mouth, difficulty breathing, hypotension, or shock).
Arthus-type hypersensitivity reactions, characterized by severe local reactions (generally starting  to  hours after an injection), may follow receipt of tetanus toxoid.
General side effects have included fever greater than  degrees F (rectal), high-pitched cry, persistent cry, and irritability.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included anorexia and vomiting.
Nervous system side effects have included drowsiness.
A review by the Institute of Medicine (IOM) found evidence for a causal relationship between tetanus toxoid and both brachial neuritis and Guillain-Barre syndrome.
It is possible that some side effects of Tripedia (DTaP) may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Collapse or shock-like state
crying for  hours or more
fever over  F
redness or swelling of  inches or more at the injection site
seizures (convulsions)
severe pain at the injection site
Agitation
back pain
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site
blood in the urine or stools
bloody nose
bluish color of the fingernails, lips, skin, palms, or nail beds
blurred vision
confusion
cough
diarrhea
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
drowsiness
fast heartbeat
hallucinations
headache
hoarseness
irritability
irritation
joint pain, stiffness, or swelling
loss of bladder control
loss of consciousness
loss of strength or energy
muscle pain or weakness
nausea and vomiting
pain or cramping in the abdomen or stomach
pinpoint red spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rash with flat lesions or small raised lesions on the skin
screaming
shortness of breath
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
sneezing
sore throat
stiff neck
swollen, painful, or tender lymph glands in the neck, armpit, or groin
tightness in the chest
total body jerking
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness (sudden and severe)
Fever of  F or more
fussiness
loss of appetite
mild pain, redness, swelling, or tenderness at the injection site
restlessness
weight loss
Crying
ear pain