Get emergency medical help if you have signs of an allergic reaction:  hives; difficult breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
Keep track of any and all side effects you have after receiving this vaccine.
When you receive a booster dose, you will need to tell the doctor if the previous shot caused any side effects.
You should not receive a booster vaccine if you had a life-threatening allergic reaction after the first shot.
Becoming infected with meningococcal disease and developing meningitis (infection of the spinal cord and lining of the brain) is much more dangerous to your health than receiving this vaccine.
However, like any medicine, this vaccine can cause side effects but the risk of serious side effects is extremely low.
You may feel faint after receiving this vaccine.
Some people have had seizure-like reactions after receiving this vaccine.
Your doctor may want you to remain under observation during the first  minutes after the injection.
Common side effects may include:
headache;
feeling tired;
muscle or joint pain; 
chills;
nausea; or
pain, redness, or a hard lump where the shot was given.
This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects.
You may report vaccine side effects to the US Department of Health and Human Services at    
The most common adverse events were pain at the injection site, fatigue, erythema, myalgia, headache, and induration.
Very common ( or more): Injection site pain , erythema , induration , swelling Postmarketing reports: Blisters at or around injection site
Very common ( or more): Fatigue , headache , sleepiness, unusual cryingUncommon ( to ): Seizures (including febrile seizures)Postmarketing reports: Syncope, vasovagal responses to injection
Very common ( or more): Myalgia , chills , arthralgia 
Very common ( or more): Nausea , diarrhea Common ( to ): Vomiting
Very common ( or more): Irritability
Very common ( or more): Eating disorders
Common ( to ): Fever
Common ( to ): RashUncommon ( to ): EczemaRare (less than ): Urticaria
Uncommon ( to ): Pallor (rare after booster)Rare (less than ): Kawasaki syndrome
Very rare (less than ): AnaphylaxisPostmarketing reports: Allergic reactions, rash, eye swelling
Frequency not reported: Nasopharyngitis
It is possible that some side effects of Trumenba may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
headache;
feeling tired;
muscle or joint pain; 
chills;
nausea; or
pain, redness, or a hard lump where the shot was given.