Commonly reported side effects of ulipristal include: menstruation.
Other side effects include: intermenstrual bleeding.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, ulipristal may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some ulipristal side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Very common ( or more): Amenorrhea (up to ), endometrial thickening (up to ), dysmenorrhea (up to )Common ( to ): Pelvic pain, uterine hemorrhage, ovarian cystUncommon ( to ): Menorrhagia, menstrual disorder, vaginitis, premenstrual syndrome, metrorrhagia, vaginal/genital discharge, urinary incontinence, ruptured ovarian cyst Rare (less than ): Genital pruritus, dyspareunia, vulvovaginal pain, hypomenorrhea
-Endometrial thickening (more than  mm) reverses when treatment is stopped and menstrual periods resume.
This condition should not be mistaken for endometrial hyperplasia as these changes are reversible after treatment cessation.
Very common ( or more): Hot flush (up to )Common ( to ): Breast tenderness/pain, vertigo, edemaUncommon ( to ): Hot flush, pyrexia, breast swelling/discomfort Rare (less than ): Thirst
-The most common adverse reactions ( or more) reported were hot flush, headache, nausea, abdominal pain, and dysmenorrhea.
Common ( to ): Acne, hyperhidrosis Uncommon ( to ): Alopecia, dry skin, skin lesion, pruritusRare (less than ): Urticaria
Very common ( or more): Abdominal pain (up to ), nausea (up to )Common ( to ): Abdominal discomfort, vomitingUncommon ( to ): Diarrhea, dry mouth, dyspepsia, flatulence
Uncommon ( to ): Influenza
Common ( to ): Blood cholesterol increased Uncommon ( to ): Appetite disorders, blood triglycerides increased, weight increased
Common ( to ): Myalgia, back pain, musculoskeletal painUncommon ( to ): Asthenia
Very common ( or more): Headache (up to )Common ( to ): Fatigue, dizzinessUncommon ( to ): Somnolence, migraine, chills, malaiseRare (less than ): Tremor, disturbance in attention, dysgeusia, syncope
Uncommon ( to ): Visual disturbanceRare (less than ): Abnormal sensation in eye, ocular hyperemia, photophobia
Common ( to ): Mood disordersUncommon ( to ): Emotional disorder, anxiety, insomnia, hyperactivity disorder, libido changesRare (less than ): Disorientation
Uncommon ( to ): EpistaxisRare (less than ): Dry throat
It is possible that some side effects of ulipristal may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Cramps
heavy bleeding
pain
Abdominal or stomach pain
headache
nausea
unusual tiredness or weakness
Dizziness
Blemishes on the skin
pimples