As well as its needed effects, acetaminophen / tramadol may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking acetaminophen / tramadol, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking acetaminophen / tramadol, get emergency help immediately:
Some acetaminophen / tramadol side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most common adverse reactions include nausea, somnolence, and dizziness.
Acetaminophen-TramadolUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Increased transaminases, abnormal hepatic functionAcetaminophen:Frequency not reported: Acute liver failureTramadol:Frequency not reported: Hepatitis, liver failure
A psychic reaction with symptoms of nervousness, anxiety, agitation, tremor, spasticity, euphoria, emotional lability, and hallucinations has been reported with tramadol use.
During clinical trials, tolerance development was mild and the reports of a withdrawal syndrome were rare.
Symptoms of a withdrawal syndrome have included: panic attacks, severe anxiety, hallucinations, paresthesias, tinnitus and unusual CNS symptoms (i.
e.
confusion, delusions, personalization, derealization, and paranoia).
Acetaminophen-TramadolVery common (10% or more): Insomnia Common (1% to 10%): Altered mood (anxiety, nervousness, euphoric mood), sleep disorders Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Depression, hallucinations, nightmares, amnesiaRare (less than 0.
1%): Delirium, dependencyFrequency not reported: Depersonalization, paranoiaPostmarketing reports: AbuseTramadol:Frequency not reported: Psychic reactions including mood changes, withdrawal symptoms
Acetaminophen-TramadolVery common (10% or more): Nausea (up to 18%), constipation (up to 11%)Common (1% to 10%): Vomiting, dyspepsia, dry mouth, diarrhea, abdominal pain, flatulenceUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Dysphagia, melena, tongue edemaTramadolFrequency not reported: Gastrointestinal bleeding
Acetaminophen-TramadolVery common (10% or more): Dizziness (up to 15%), Somnolence (up to 12%), headache (up to 11%), Common (1% to 10%): Tremor, confusion, paresthesia, hypoesthesiaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Migraine, hypertonia, stupor, involuntary muscle contractionsRare (less than 0.
1%): Seizures, ataxia, speech disordersTramadol: Frequency not reported: Serotonin syndrome
Common (1% to 10%): Sweating, pruritus, rashUncommon (0.
11% to 1%): dermal reactions such as rash and urticaria
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Albuminuria, micturition disorders (dysuria and urinary retention)Frequency not reported: Impotence
Acetaminophen-Tramadol:Uncommon: Hypertension, palpitations, tachycardia, arrhythmiaLess than 1%: Aggravated hypertension, hypotension, chest painTramadol: Frequency not reported: Postural hypotension, bradycardia, syncope, vasodilation, myocardial ischemia
Acetaminophen:Frequency not reported: Allergic reactions (primarily skin rash)Tramadol: Rare (less than 0.
1%): Anaphylaxis, allergic reactions such as dyspnea, bronchospasm, wheezing, urticarial and Stevens-Johnson syndrome/TENS
Acetaminophen-Tramadol: Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): DyspneaTramadol:Frequency not reported: Asthma aggravated
Common (1% to 10%): Asthenia, fatigue, hot flushes Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Tinnitus, shivers
Acetaminophen-TramadolFrequency not reported: AnemiaAcetaminophen:Frequency not reported: Blood dyscrasias including thrombocytopenia and agranulocytosis
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Abnormal visionRare (less than 0.
1%): Blurred vision, mydriasis, miosis
Common (1% to 10%): AnorexiaFrequency not reported: Hypoglycemia, decreased weight
Common (1% to 10%): Prostatic disorder
It is possible that some side effects of Ultracet may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Burning, itching, and redness of the skin
chest pain
cough
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
seizures
shortness of breath
skin rash, hives, or itching skin
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
wheezing
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
chills
diarrhea
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
noisy breathing
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
Abdominal or stomach pain
black, tarry stools
chest pain or discomfort
dark urine
difficulty with sleeping
disorientation
drowsiness to profound coma
fever
headache
irregular, fast or slow, or shallow breathing
lethargy
light-colored stools
lightheadedness
loss of appetite
mood or other mental changes
nausea
pale or blue lips, fingernails, or skin
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
unpleasant breath odor
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin
Acid or sour stomach
anxiety
belching
bloated or full feeling
constipation
dry mouth
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
false or unusual sense of well-being
feeling of warmth
heartburn
increase in bowel movements
increased sweating
indigestion
loose stools
loss of strength or energy
muscle pain or weakness
numbness or tingling of the hands, legs, and feet
painful or difficult urination
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally the upper chest
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
soft stools
stomach discomfort
weight loss
Abnormal thinking
blurred vision
change in vision
clumsiness, unsteadiness, trembling, or problems with muscle control or coordination
cold sweats
continuing ringing, buzzing, or unexplained noise in the ears
crying
decrease in the frequency or amount of urination
decreased awareness or responsiveness
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
depression
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
dysphoria
euphoria
fainting
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
feeling unusually cold
headache, severe or continuing
increased muscle tone
involuntary muscle contractions
loss of memory
loss of sense of reality
loss of sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
migraine headache
morbid dreaming
paranoia
pounding in the ears
problems with memory
quick to react or overreact emotionally
rapidly changing moods
sensation of spinning
severe stomach pain
shakiness and unsteady walk
shivering
swelling of the tongue
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds