More frequent side effects include: burning sensation of skin, pruritus, and stinging of the skin.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, halobetasol topical (the active ingredient contained in Ultravate) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking halobetasol topical, check with your doctor immediately:
Some halobetasol topical side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most commonly reported side effects were stinging, burning, and itching.
Frequency not reported: Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, Cushing's syndrome
Frequency not reported: Intracranial hypertension (including bulging fontanelles, headaches, bilateral papilledema), paresthesia
Frequency not reported: Dry skin, erythema, skin atrophy, leukoderma, vesicles, rash, pustulation, acne, secondary infection, telangiectasia, urticaria, miliaria, folliculitis, hypertrichosis, acneiform eruptions, hypopigmentation, perioral dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, striae
Frequency not reported: Hyperglycemia, glucosuria
Common (1% to 10%): Stinging, burning, itching
It is possible that some side effects of Ultravate may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Blisters under the skin
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
dry skin
flushing or redness of the skin
hives or welts
itching
rash
stinging
thinning of the skin with easy bruising, especially when used on the face or where the skin folds together (e.
g.
between the fingers)
unusually warm skin
Blistering, burning, crusting, dryness, or flaking of the skin
itching, scaling, severe redness, soreness, or swelling of the skin
redness and scaling around the mouth
Acne or pimples
burning and itching of the skin with pinhead-sized red blisters
Burning, itching, and pain in hairy areas, or pus at the root of the hair
increased hair growth on the forehead, back, arms, and legs
lightening of normal skin color
lightening of treated areas of dark skin
reddish purple lines on the arms, face, legs, trunk, or groin