Commonly reported side effects of unoprostone ophthalmic include: burning sensation of eyes, conjunctival injection, eye pruritus, stinging of eyes, xerophthalmia, and increased eyelash length.
Other side effects include: eyelid disease, visual disturbance, abnormal lacrimation, decreased eyelash length, and foreign body sensation.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, unoprostone ophthalmic may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking unoprostone ophthalmic, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some unoprostone ophthalmic side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Some unoprostone ophthalmic side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Unoprostone ophthalmic may change the eye color.
This is caused by a gradual increase of the brown pigment in the iris.
The change in iris color is slow and may not be noticeable for months.
When administered to animals for 12 months, one of ten animals exhibited increased pigmentation of the iris.
The manufacturer reports after 12 months of therapy an increased length in eyelashes (>= 1 mm) in approximately 10% to 14% of patients and a decreased length in eyelashes in 7% of patients.
Very common (10% or more): Burning/stinging, dry eyes, itching, increased length of eyelashesCommon (1% to 10%): Abnormal vision, eyelid disorder, foreign body sensation, lacrimation disorder, blepharitis, cataract, conjunctivitis, corneal lesion, discharge from the eye, eye hemorrhage, eye pain, keratitis, irritation, photophobia, vitreous disorderUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Acute elevated intraocular pressure, color blindness, corneal deposits, corneal edema, corneal opacity, diplopia, hyperpigmentation of the eyelid, increased number of eyelashes, iris hyperpigmentation, iritis, optic atrophy, ptosis, retinal hemorrhage, visual field defect, decrease in the length of eyelashesPostmarketing reports: Corneal erosion, chemosis
Common (1% to 10%): Bronchitis, increased cough, pharyngitis, rhinitis, sinusitis
Common (1% to 10%): Dizziness, headache
Common (1% to 10%): Back pain
Common (1% to 10%): Diabetes mellitus
Common (1% to 10%): HypertensionPostmarketing reports: Palpitations
Postmarketing reports: Dry mouth, nausea, vomiting
Common (1% to 10%): Accidental injury, pain
Common (1% to 10%): Allergic reaction
The most commonly reported side effects were burning/stinging, dry eyes, itching, and increased length of eyelashes.
Common (1% to 10%): Flu-like syndrome
Common (1% to 10%): Insomnia
It is possible that some side effects of unoprostone ophthalmic may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Blood in the whites of the eyes
blurred vision or eye pain
eye irritation or redness
Blindness
color blindness
decreased vision or other changes in vision
Abnormal tearing of eyes
burning or stinging of eyes
chills
cough
diarrhea
double vision
dry eyes
fever 
general feeling of discomfort or illness
headache
itching of eyes
joint pain
loss of appetite
muscle aches and pains
nausea
runny nose
shivering
sore throat
sweating
trouble sleeping
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Discharge from eye
inflammation of the eye
redness, pain, swelling of eye, eyelid, or inner lining of eyelid
sensitivity to light
Feeling of having something in the eye
increased or decreased length of eyelashes
Change in the color of the iris or eyelid
increase in number of eyelashes
difficulty seeing at night
increased sensitivity of eyes to sunlight 