Common side effects of Uptravi include: diarrhea, headache, jaw pain, limb pain, myalgia, nausea, vomiting, and flushing.
Other side effects include: anemia, and decreased appetite.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, selexipag (the active ingredient contained in Uptravi) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking selexipag, check with your doctor immediately:
Some selexipag side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most frequently reported side effects included headache, diarrhea, jaw pain, nausea, myalgia, vomiting, pain in extremity, and flushing.
Very common (10% or more): Headache (65%)
Very common (10% or more): Diarrhea (42%), nausea (33%), vomiting (18%)
Very common (10% or more): Jaw pain (26%), pain in extremity (17%), myalgia (16%), arthralgia (11%)
Very common (10% or more): Flushing (12%)
Very common (10% or more): Rash (11%)
Frequency not reported: Pulmonary veno-occlusive disease
Common (1% to 10%): HyperthyroidismFrequency not reported: Thyroid stimulating hormone decreased
Common (1% to 10%): Anemia, hemoglobin decreased
Common (1% to 10%): Appetite decreased
It is possible that some side effects of Uptravi may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Blue lips and fingernails
chest pain
coughing that sometimes produces a pink frothy sputum
difficult, fast, noisy breathing, sometimes with wheezing
increased sweating
pale skin
swelling in the legs and ankles
Decreased appetite
diarrhea
feeling of warmth
headache
joint pain
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pains or stiffness
nausea
pain in the jaw, arms, or legs
rash
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
swollen joints
vomiting