Check with your doctor if any of these most COMMON side effects persist or become bothersome:
Diarrhea.
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; itching; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, or tongue); black, tarry stools; nausea; slow reflexes; vomit that looks like coffee grounds.
Other side effects have included effects due to toxicity (hypermagnesemia).
Mild hypermagnesemia is generally well-tolerated.
Moderate or severe hypermagnesemia primarily affects the nervous and cardiovascular systems.
The effects of hypermagnesemia may be worsened by the presence of hypocalcemia, especially in patients with uremia.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea.
Magnesium toxicity has been associated with nausea (magnesium levels of  to  mg/dL or  to  mEq/L) and rare cases of paralytic ileus (magnesium levels greater than  mEq/L).
Nervous system side effects have resulted from the suppression of neuromuscular transmission in the CNS and at the neuromuscular junction by magnesium (antagonized by calcium).
The degree of severity of these side effects has been dependent on the serum magnesium level.
Clinically, if serum magnesium levels increase to  to  mEq/L, there may be a decrease in tendon reflexes, muscle weakness and/or mental confusion/sedation.
At levels of  to  mEq/L the respiratory rate slows and the blood pressure falls.
At levels  of  to  mEq/L there is usually profound mental depression, areflexia, coma and respiratory paralysis.
Magnesium also has a curare-like effect at the neuromuscular junction at serum levels above  mEq/L.
Death is not uncommon when serum magnesium levels rise to  mEq/L.
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypotension, depressed myocardial conductivity, and bradyarrhythmias.
The cardiovascular consequences of hypermagnesemia are due to peripheral vasodilation.
Hypotension may be observed when serum Mg levels rise to  to  mEq/L, becoming severe when serum Mg levels rise above  mEq/L.
Magnesium can also depress myocardial conductivity and cause bradyarrhythmias at levels greater than  mEq/L.
While some patients are inexplicably able to tolerate extraordinary magnesium levels, there is a significant risk of asystole when levels rise to  mEq/L.
The risk of cardiotoxicity from hypermagnesemia is increased in the presence of hypocalcemia, hyperkalemia, acidosis, digitalis therapy, and renal insufficiency.
Acute hypermagnesemia may cause hypocalcemia due to suppression of the release of parathyroid hormone (PTH) and competition for renal tubular reabsorption between calcium (Ca) and magnesium.
The latter can lead to decreased Ca reabsorption and hypercalciuria, which aggravates the hypocalcemia produced by decreased release of PTH.
Metabolic side effects have included hypocalcemia.
Magnesium oxide (the active ingredient contained in Uro-Mag) is generally well-tolerated.
It is possible that some side effects of Uro-Mag may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.