As well as its needed effects, valacyclovir may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking valacyclovir, check with your doctor immediately:
Some valacyclovir side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea (up to ), abdominal pain (up to ), and vomiting (up to ).
Constipation, anorexia, diarrhea, elevated amylase, and elevated serum lipase have been reported.
Diarrhea has been reported during postmarketing experience.
In clinical trials of otherwise healthy individuals, frequencies were higher for patients over  years of age than for younger patients.
Nervous system side effects have included headache (up to ) and dizziness (up to ).
Central nervous system effects including agitation, seizures, and encephalopathy have been reported.
Choreiform movements, myoclonus, vasculitic mononeuritis multiplex, somnolence, and Cotard's syndrome have been reported.
Agitation, ataxia, coma, decreased consciousness, dysarthria, encephalopathy, seizures, and tremors have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Neurotoxicity has been most commonly reported in patients with renal failure, the elderly, and in patients following bone marrow transplant, and is associated with high serum concentrations of acyclovir.
Acyclovir neurotoxicity is almost exclusively seen in patients with renal failure.
These patients may have longstanding chronic renal failure, or acute failure which may be attributed to acyclovir.
One group of six bone marrow transplant patients exhibited abnormal EEGs with diffuse slowing.
Although more commonly seen with intravenous administration of higher doses, neurotoxicity has also been reported in patients receiving oral doses of acyclovir.
Following discontinuation of therapy, mental status recovered within about a week.
Several patients with chronic renal failure exhibiting neurotoxicity improved dramatically following hemodialysis.
Although there have been no similar reports in clinical trials of valacyclovir completed to date, the assumption may be made that neurotoxicity can also occur with valacyclovir based on the fact that plasma acyclovir concentrations from oral valacyclovir administration tend to be much higher than those obtained with oral acyclovir.
Psychiatric side effects have included depression (up to ) and disorientation.
Central nervous system effects including hallucinations, confusion, and delirium have been reported.
Aggressive behavior, confusion, mania, and psychosis (including auditory and visual hallucinations) have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Transient renal dysfunction has been reported with both oral and intravenous administration of acyclovir.
Crystallization of the drug in the renal tubules is thought to be the mechanism for the development of renal dysfunction based on findings of crystalluria in several case reports and at least one prospective study.
Inadequate hydration of the patient and rapid administration of the drug may contribute to the development of crystalluria.
Acute tubular necrosis and interstitial nephritis have also been reported in association with acyclovir therapy.
Although there have been no similar reports in clinical trials of valacyclovir completed to date, the assumption may be made that renal toxicity can also occur with valacyclovir based on the fact that plasma acyclovir concentrations from oral valacyclovir administration tend to be much higher than those obtained with oral acyclovir.
Renal side effects have included acute renal failure, elevated serum creatinine (up to ), renal toxicity, and renal failure (presenting as an increase in serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen).
Renal failure and renal pain (may be associated with renal failure) have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Renal effects are transient and resolve over several days following discontinuation of therapy.
Renal damage is most likely due to crystallization of acyclovir in the renal tubules.
Patients with preexisting renal insufficiency are at greater risk for developing neurotoxicity and further deterioration in renal function.
Hematologic side effects have included thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura/hemolytic uremic syndrome (TTP/HUS), and decreased neutrophil counts , platelet counts (up to ), hemoglobin (up to ), and white blood cells (up to ).
Thrombocytopenia, aplastic anemia, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, and TTP/HUS have been reported during postmarketing experience.
TTP/HUS, including some fatalities, has been reported during clinical trials in patients with advanced HIV disease and in allogeneic bone marrow transplant and renal transplant recipients, who were receiving  g valacyclovir per day.
Hepatic side effects have included elevated AST (up to ), ALT (up to ), and bilirubin.
Liver enzyme abnormalities and hepatitis have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included acute hypersensitivity reactions (including anaphylaxis, angioedema, dyspnea, pruritus, rash, and urticaria) during postmarketing experience.
Stevens-Johnson syndrome has been reported.
Dermatologic side effects have included rash .
Erythema multiforme, rashes including photosensitivity, and alopecia have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypertension and tachycardia during postmarketing experience.
Ocular side effects have included visual abnormalities during postmarketing experience.
Respiratory side effects have included nasopharyngitis  and upper respiratory tract infection .
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgia (up to ).
Genitourinary side effects have included dysmenorrhea (up to ).
Other side effects have included fatigue .
Facial edema has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Metabolic side effects have included elevated alkaline phosphatase  and hypoglycemia.
At least one case of hypercalcemia has been reported.
It is possible that some side effects of valacyclovir may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Discouragement
feeling sad or empty
irritability
lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
tiredness
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
Black, tarry stools
chest pain
chills
cough
decreased frequency or output of urine
fever
flu-like symptoms
headache
lower back or side pain
reduced mental alertness
shortness of breath
yellow eyes or skin
Actions that are out of control
agitation
anxiety
back, leg, or stomach pains
bleeding gums
blood in urine or stools
blurred vision
change in consciousness
change in mental status
changes in behavior, especially in interactions with other people
changes in patterns and rhythms of speech
dark or bloody urine
difficult or labored breathing
difficulty speaking
difficulty swallowing
dizziness
drowsiness
dry mouth
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
feeling that others are watching you or controlling your behavior
feeling that others can hear your thoughts
feeling, seeing, or hearing things that are not there
general tiredness and weakness
hyperventilation
increased thirst
itching
lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position
light-colored stools
loss of consciousness
mood or mental changes
nausea and vomiting
nervousness
pale color of skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
pounding in the ears
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
redness of the skin
restlessness
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
seizures
severe mood or mental changes
shakiness and unsteady walk
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
skin rash
slurred speech
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
stiff neck
swelling of the face, fingers, or lower legs
swollen or painful glands
talking, feeling, and acting with excitement
tightness in the chest
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
trouble in speaking
troubled breathing
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination
unusual behavior
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
upper right abdominal pain
vomiting
weight gain
wheezing
Body aches or pain
cramps
difficulty in moving
ear congestion
heavy bleeding
loss of voice
muscle aches
muscle pain or stiffness
nasal congestion
pain
pain in joints
sneezing
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
Constipation
diarrhea
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
hair loss or thinning of the hair
hives or welts
increased sensitivity of skin to sunlight
red, irritated eyes
redness or other discoloration of the skin
severe sunburn