Common side effects of Valium include: hypotonia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, diazepam (the active ingredient contained in Valium) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking diazepam, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking diazepam, get emergency help immediately:
Some diazepam side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most commonly reported side effects include sedation/drowsiness, ataxia, and muscle weakness.
Very common ( or more): Drowsiness/somnolence (up to )Common ( to ): Anterograde amnesia/amnesia, ataxia, nervousness, unsteadiness, incoordination, impaired motor ability, hyperkinesia, tremor, epileptic attacks, sedation, headache, dizziness, slurred speech, hangover effect, decreased/reduced alertness, disrupted sensory perceptionUncommon ( to ): Concentration difficulties, balance disorderRare ( to ): Memory loss, dysarthria, syncope, unconsciousness, nystagmus, convulsions/grand mal convulsions, vertigo, lightheadedness, dystonia/dystonic effects, extrapyramidal effects, abnormal taste, hypersensitivity to physical, visual, and auditory stimuliFrequency not reported: Oversedation, dementia, lethargy, minor EEG pattern changesPostmarketing reports: Speech disorder
Drowsiness, headache, dizziness, ataxia, and reduced alertness occurred at the start of treatment, but usually disappeared with continued use.
Anterograde amnesia is a dose-related side effect that may occur at therapeutic doses.
Tremor, disrupted sensory perception, and epileptic attacks occurred in patients with withdrawal symptoms.
Drowsiness, sedation, unsteadiness, and ataxia are dose-related and may persist into the following day, even with single doses.
Prolonged use of treatment in elderly patients may result in dementia.
Common ( to ): Confusion, withdrawal symptoms, euphoria, increased anxiety/anxiety, panic, irritability, delirium, aggressiveness/aggression, numbed emotions, instability, restlessness, agitation, inappropriate behavior, delusions, rage, hallucinations, nightmares, confusional or paranoid psychosis/psychosesRare ( to ): Excitation, insomnia, hostility, disinhibition, emotional poverty, other adverse behavioral effects, delirium tremens-like state, broken sleep with vivid dreams, increased REM sleep, increased or decreased libidoFrequency not reported: Drug abuse, unmasking of depression, inhibited female orgasm, acute hyperexcited states, stimulation, hypoactivity, physical and psychic dependencePostmarketing reports: Emotional lability, abnormal thinking
Confusion and numbed emotions occurred at the start of treatment, but usually disappeared with continued use.
Confusion has occurred in elderly patients who received high doses.
Inappropriate behavior may occur with anterograde amnesia.
Psychic and physical dependence occurred with chronic use at therapeutic doses; withdrawal symptoms may occur in patients with dependence when treatment is discontinued.
Anxiety, panic, irritability, aggressiveness/aggression, paranoid psychosis, and delirium occurred in patients with withdrawal symptoms.
Restlessness, agitation, irritability, aggressiveness/aggression, rage, delusions, nightmares, psychoses, hallucinations, and inappropriate behavior occurred in patients with paradoxical reactions, especially in elderly and pediatric patients.
Increased REM sleep and broken sleep with vivid dreams may persist for weeks after treatment is discontinued.
Common ( to ): Fatigue, general malaise, paradoxical reactions, astheniaFrequency not reported: Falls, rebound effect, tinnitus, pain, infection
Fatigue occurred at the start of treatment, but usually disappeared with continued use.
Elderly patients have an increased risk of falling.
Patients with physical/psychic dependence may experience rebound effects during discontinuation.
General malaise occurred in patients with withdrawal symptoms.
Pain occurred with injection formulations.
Increased salivation has been reported, especially in pediatric patients.
Gastrointestinal disorders occurred in patients with withdrawal symptoms.
Common ( to ): Gastrointestinal disorders/disturbances, abdominal pain, diarrheaUncommon ( to ): Nausea, vomiting, constipation, dry mouth, increased salivary secretion/hypersalivationRare ( to ): Obstipation, epigastric pain, abdominal cramps
Sweating occurred in patients with withdrawal symptoms.
Common ( to ): Sweating, rashUncommon ( to ): Itching/pruritus, erythemaVery rare (less than ): UrticariaFrequency not reported: Steven-Johnson syndrome, skin reactions
Palpitations occurred in patients with withdrawal symptoms.
Thrombophlebitis and venous thrombosis have occurred with injection formulations.
Ischemia occurred with inadvertent intra-arterial administration.
Common ( to ): Palpitations, vasodilationUncommon ( to ): HypotensionRare ( to ): Bradycardia, mild systolic hypertension, tachycardia, orthostatic hypotension, chest pain, heart failure and cardiac arrestFrequency not reported: Thrombophlebitis, venous thrombosis, ischemia, cardiovascular collapse
Increased bronchial secretions were reported, especially in pediatric patients.
Respiratory depression and apnea occurred, especially with high doses.
Coughing, respiratory depression, dyspnea, hyperventilation, laryngospasm, and throat/chest pain have been reported in patients undergoing peroral endoscopic procedures.
Common ( to ): Asthma, rhinitisUncommon ( to ): Respiratory depressionRare ( to ): Respiratory arrest, increased bronchial secretion, laryngeal spasm/laryngospasm, apneaFrequency not reported: Hypoventilation, increased cough, hiccups, dyspnea, hyperventilation, throat and chest pain
Common ( to ): Muscle spasms/increased muscle spasticity, muscle weaknessUncommon ( to ): MyastheniaRare ( to ): Muscle twitchingFrequency not reported: Fractures, tissue necrosis, muscle aches and cramps
Muscle weakness occurred at the start of treatment, but usually disappeared with continued use.
Elderly patients and/or those taking sedatives/alcohol concomitantly have an increased risk of fractures associated with falls.
Muscle spasms occurred in patients with withdrawal symptoms.
Tissue necrosis occurred with inadvertent intra-arterial administration.
Common ( to ): Double vision/diplopiaRare ( to ): Blurred vision, other visual disturbances/reversible disorders of visionFrequency not reported: Mydriasis
Double vision occurred at the start of treatment, but usually disappeared with continued use.
Common ( to ): Appetite lossRare ( to ): Increased appetiteFrequency not reported: Anorexia
Appetite loss occurred in patients with withdrawal symptoms.
Uncommon ( to ): Urinary retention, incontinenceRare ( to ): Impotence, menstrual changesFrequency not reported: Galactorrhea, urinary tract infection
Uncommon ( to ): Allergic skin reactionsVery rare (less than ): AnaphylaxisFrequency not reported: Angioedema
Rare ( to ): Jaundice, cholestatic/hepatocellular jaundice, cholestasis, changes of hepatic parameters/increased ALT, AST, and alkaline phosphatase
Rare ( to ): Blood dyscrasias, thrombocytopeniaVery rare (less than ): Leukopenia, neutropeniaFrequency not reported: Agranulocytosis, lymphadenopathy, anemia
Rare ( to ): GynecomastiaFrequency not reported: Increased prolactin and testosterone levels
It is possible that some side effects of Valium may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
injection emulsion, injection solutionrectal gel/jelly, rectal kit
Shakiness and unsteady walk
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination
Abdominal or stomach pain
agitation
anxiety
black, tarry stools
blistering, flaking, or peeling of skin
blurred vision
changes in patterns and rhythms of speech
chills
confusion
cough
dark urine
decrease in frequency of urination
decrease in urine volume
difficulty in passing urine (dribbling)
discouragement
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying or sitting position suddenly
false beliefs that cannot be changed by facts
fast heartbeat
fast or irregular breathing
feeling sad or empty
feeling that others are watching you or controlling your behavior
feeling that others can hear your thoughts
feeling, seeing, or hearing things that are not there
fever
headache
hyperexcitability
increased muscle spasms or tone
irritability
itching
lack of appetite
lack of memory of what takes place after a certain event
loss of appetite
loss of bladder control
loss of interest or pleasure
lower back or side pain
mood or other mental changes
nausea
nervousness
nightmares
outbursts of anger
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
rash
restlessness
seizures
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
shortness of breath
sleeplessness
slurred speech
sore throat
sweating
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
tremor
trouble concentrating
trouble in speaking
trouble sleeping
ulcers, sores, or white spots in the mouth
unable to sleep
unpleasant breath odor
unusual behavior
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual feeling of excitement
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin
Change in consciousness
difficult or troubled breathing
irregular, fast or slow, or shallow breathing
lack of coordination
loss of consciousness
loss of strength or energy
muscle pain or weakness
pale or blue lips, fingernails, or skin
sleepiness
unusual drowsiness, dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness 
Constipation
decreased interest in sexual intercourse
diarrhea
difficulty in swallowing
double vision
dry mouth
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
inability to have or keep an erection
increase in sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
increased interest in sexual intercourse
increased watering of mouth
indigestion
loss of sexual ability, desire, drive, or performance
passing of gas
seeing double
sensation of spinning