Commonly reported side effects of valsartan include: dizziness and increased serum potassium.
Other side effects include: hypotension.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, valsartan may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some valsartan side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Very common ( or more): Headache (up to ), dizziness (up to )Common ( to ): Dizziness Uncommon ( to ): Vertigo
Common ( to ): CoughUncommon ( to ): Dyspnea
A -year-old woman experienced an acute onset of angioedema and a photosensitive pruritic rash after  months of valsartan therapy.
Her symptoms dissipated and the rash resolved after treatment with subcutaneous epinephrine, intravenous methylprednisolone, diphenhydramine, and emollient cream.
A unique case of dose-dependent, valsartan-induced angioedema has been reported.
Two hours after initiating a dose increase ( to  mg/day) of valsartan, a patient developed angioedema (i.
e.
, swelling of lips and tongue).
Symptoms resolved following a reduction in dose to the original dosage of  mg/day.
Very rare (less than ): Angioedema
Common ( to ): Symptomatic hypotension in  of heart failure patients in clinical trialsRare (less than ): Palpitations, chest painFrequency not reported: Dizziness related to orthostatic hypotensionPostmarketing reports: Heart failure
Common ( to ): Hyperkalemia, hyponatremia
Frequency not reported: Impaired renal function, increases in serum creatinine concentrations, blood urea nitrogen, and potassiumPostmarketing reports: Renal failure
Rare (less than ): Pruritus, rash, alopeciaPostmarketing reports: Bullous dermatitis
Uncommon ( to ): Diarrhea, constipation, dry mouth, dyspepsia, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, flatulencePostmarketing reports: Taste disturbance (i.
e.
, altered sensitivity of basic tastes) has been reported following repeated dosing
Common ( to ): Back pain, muscle cramps, myalgiasVery rare (less than ): Rhabdomyolysis
Frequency not reported: Anxiety, insomnia, paresthesias, somnolence
Very rare (less than ): Impotence
Uncommon ( to ): Hematocrit decreased, hemoglobin decreased, neutropeniaPostmarketing reports: Thrombocytopenia, vasculitis
Valsartan-associated hepatotoxicity in a patient with hepatitis B surface antigen (HBs-Ag) positivity (without signs and symptoms) has been reported.
After  month of treatment with valsartan, this patient developed pruritic erythematous skin changes, nausea, jaundice, right subcostal abdominal pain, elevated liver enzymes, and mild hepatomegaly.
Signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity resolved within  to  weeks following discontinuation of valsartan and the patient remained asymptomatic after  months of follow-up.
Very rare (less than ): HepatitisFrequency not reported: Hepatic enzymes increased
It is possible that some side effects of valsartan may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Bloody urine
cold sweats
confusion
decreased frequency or amount of urine
difficult breathing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up from a lying position
fainting
increased thirst
irregular heartbeat
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
nausea
nervousness
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
swelling of the face, fingers, or lower legs
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
weight gain
Chills
fever
hoarseness
sore throat
swelling of the mouth, hands, or feet
trouble with swallowing or breathing (sudden)
Dark urine
general tiredness and weakness
light-colored stools
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
yellow eyes and skin
Abdominal or stomach pain
back pain
blurred vision
cold or flu-like symptoms
coughing
diarrhea
difficulty with moving
headache
muscle pain or stiffness
pain, swelling, or redness in the joints
Hair loss
thinning of the hair