Common side effects of Valstar include: cystitis, bladder pain, bladder spasm, dysuria, hematuria, urinary frequency, urinary incontinence, and urinary urgency.
Other side effects include: nocturia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, valrubicin (the active ingredient contained in Valstar) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some valrubicin side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Local adverse reactions associated with valrubicin (the active ingredient contained in Valstar) usually occurred during or shortly after instillate and resolve within one to seven days after the instillation is removed from the bladder.
Very common ( or more): Any local bladder symptom Common ( to ): Procedure related local burning symptoms
Very common ( or more): Urinary frequency , urinary urgency , dysuria , bladder spasm , hematuria , bladder pain , urinary incontinence , urinary tract infection , cystitis  Common ( to ): Nocturia, urinary retention, microscopic hematuria, urethral pain, pelvic pain, gross hematuriaFrequency not reported: Poor urine flow, urethritis
The most common side effects were local bladder symptoms, including urinary frequency, urinary urgency, and dysuria.
Common ( to ): Abdominal pain, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, flatulence Frequency not reported: Tenesmus
Common ( to ): Headache, dizziness Frequency not reported: Taste loss
Common ( to ): RashFrequency not reported: Pruritus, local skin irritation
Common ( to ): Vasodilation
Common ( to ): Anemia
Common ( to ): Hyperglycemia, peripheral edema Frequency not reported: Nonprotein nitrogen increased
Common ( to ): Back pain, myalgia
Common ( to ): Pneumonia
Common ( to ): Asthenia, malaise, chest pain, fever
It is possible that some side effects of Valstar may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Blood in urine
loss of bladder control 
painful or difficult urination
red color in urine
strong urge to urinate
unusually frequent urination
Increased urination at night
local burning sensation
Frequent urge to defecate
itching
loss of sense of taste