More frequent side effects include: pain at injection site and tenderness at injection site.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, hepatitis a adult vaccine (the active ingredient contained in Vaqta) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some hepatitis a adult vaccine side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Hepatitis A vaccine is generally well-tolerated.
Most side effects were mild, self-limiting, and of short duration (
Local side effects have included pain, tenderness, warmth, induration, erythema, swelling, ecchymosis, hematoma, and injection site pruritus and/or rash.
Cardiovascular side effects have included syncope.
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus, rash, and urticaria.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included anorexia, nausea, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dysgeusia, gastroenteritis, and vomiting.
Genitourinary side effects have included menstruation disorder and isolated reports of increased urine protein.
Hematologic side effects have rarely included lymphadenopathy, thrombocytopenia, and eosinophilia.
Hepatic side effects have included isolated reports of elevated liver function tests.
Hypersensitivity reactions have included bronchial constriction, asthma, wheezing, edema/swelling, rash, generalized erythema, urticaria, pruritus, eye irritation/itching, and dermatitis.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgia, creatine phosphokinase elevations, myalgia, arm pain, back pain, and stiffness.
Nervous system side effects have included headache, hypertonic episode, insomnia, somnolence, photophobia, vertigo, Guillain-Barre syndrome, cerebellar ataxia.
Respiratory side effects have included pharyngitis, other upper respiratory tract infections, nasal congestion, and cough.
Other side effects have included asthenia, fatigue, fever, and malaise.
It is possible that some side effects of Vaqta may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Fever more than  degrees F
general feeling of discomfort or illness
unusual tiredness or weakness
Body aches or pain
chills
congestion
cough
difficulty with breathing or swallowing
dryness or soreness of the throat
ear congestion
headache
hives
hoarseness
itching, especially of the feet or hands
loss of voice
nasal congestion
reddening of the skin, especially around the ears
runny nose
shortness of breath
sneezing
sore throat
swelling of the eyes, face, or inside of the nose
swollen, painful, or tender lymph glands in the neck, armpit, or groin
tender, swollen glands in the neck
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness (sudden and severe)
voice changes
wheezing
Abdominal or stomach pain
agitation
back pain
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
blood in the urine or stools
blurred vision
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings in the hands, arms, feet, or legs
clay-colored stools
coma
confusion
dark urine
diarrhea
difficulty controlling your bladder or bowels
difficulty with walking
dizziness
drowsiness
fainting
fast heartbeat
feeling of discomfort
feeling sad or depressed
flu-like symptoms
forgetful
hallucinations
inability to move the arms and legs
increased sweating
inflammation of the joints
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
muscle aches or cramps
nausea
pinpoint red spots on the skin
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rash
red, irritated eyes
seizures
sensation of pins and needles
shakiness and unsteady walk
slurred speech
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
stabbing pain
stiff neck
sudden numbness and weakness in the arms and legs
swollen lymph glands
unpleasant breath odor
unsteadiness, trembling, or other problems with muscle control or coordination
unusual bleeding or bruising
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin
Pain, redness, swelling, or lumps at the injection site
weight loss
Arm pain
bleeding between periods
change in the amount of bleeding during periods
change in the pattern of monthly periods
lack or loss of strength
tenderness or warmth at the injection site
unusual stopping of menstrual bleeding
Change in color vision
change in taste
collection of blood under the skin
deep, dark purple bruise
difficulty seeing at night
difficulty with moving
dizziness or lightheadedness
excessive muscle tone
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
increased sensitivity of the eyes to sunlight
loss of taste
muscle tension or tightness
sensation of spinning
sleeplessness
trouble with sleeping
unable to sleep
welts
Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness