As well as its needed effects, vasopressin (the active ingredient contained in Vasostrict) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some vasopressin side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Cardiovascular side effects have included cardiac arrest, circumoral pallor, decreased cardiac output, increased blood pressure, bradycardia, arrhythmias, venous thrombosis, myocardial ischemia, peripheral vasoconstriction at higher doses, and angina.
The overall incidence of cardiovascular complications has been estimated to be .
Due to vasopressin-induced increased coronary and systemic vascular resistance, the drug can cause myocardial ischemia, reduced cardiac output, and systemic hypertension.
Some clinicians choose to give nitroglycerin and/or isoproterenol during vasopressin administration to reduce the likelihood of some of these problems.
Cardiovascular side effects related to the pressor activity of vasopressin may be important in patients with a history of coronary artery or peripheral vascular disease.
The vascular beds most affected (in decreasing order) are iliac, mesenteric, coronary, and renal.
Cardiac arrest, circumoral pallor, arrhythmias (usually bradycardia; rarely torsades de pointes), decreased cardiac output, angina pectoris, myocardial ischemia, peripheral vasoconstriction and gangrene have been reported.
Intoxication may result in water retention and/or hyponatremia, which can be effectively treated by withholding therapy and water restriction.
Dermatologic side effects of severe vasopressin-induced peripheral vasoconstriction have included sweating, alopecia, cutaneous necrosis or infarcts, and gangrene.
These problems were more likely at the site of administration.
While cutaneous necrosis has most commonly been associated with extravasation at or proximal to IV catheter sites, several cases of necrosis have been reported at sites distant from direct IV flow.
Rare cases of subcutaneous calcifications have been associated with the use of pitressin tannate, an oil-based injectable product, which is no longer marketed in the US.
Diabetes insipidus does not result from spontaneously occurring antibodies to vasopressin (the active ingredient contained in Vasostrict)   Such antibodies can develop during treatment with vasopressin, however, and can cause resistance to its diuretic effect.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included rare cases of severe anaphylaxis and urticaria.
Mesenteric artery thrombosis (MAT) with retrograde propagation of the thrombus into the portal vein has been associated with selective arterial drug infusions for control of upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage.
In some cases, small bowel necrosis with or without bacterial peritonitis secondary to thrombosis of the superior mesenteric artery has resulted.
Because up to  of patients with liver cirrhosis develop portal vein thrombosis, an association between intra-arterial vasopressin (the active ingredient contained in Vasostrict) and MAT may be coincidental.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included abdominal cramps, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and flatus in  of patients.
Unexplained abdominal pain associated with hemodynamic instability in patients receiving vasopressin has rarely been associated with mesenteric or portal vein thrombosis and bowel necrosis.
Renal side effects have included reports of myoglobinuria with acute renal failure, which has been attributed to vasopressin-induced skeletal muscle ischemia in two patients.
Nervous system side effects have included tremor, vertigo, and headache (usually described as a "pounding head").
Respiratory side effects have included rare cases of bronchial constriction, pulmonary edema, and adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
It is possible that some side effects of Vasostrict may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal or stomach pain, usually after eating a meal
agitation
back pain
chest pain or discomfort
chest tightness or heaviness
coma
confusion
constipation
convulsions
cough
decreased urine output
depression
diarrhea
difficulty with swallowing
dilated neck veins
dizziness
extreme fatigue
fainting
fast or irregular heartbeat
headache
hives, itching, or rash
hostility
increased thirst
irregular breathing
irritability
lethargy
lightheadedness, dizziness, or fainting
muscle pain or cramps
muscle twitching
nausea or vomiting
no blood pressure or pulse
pain in the shoulders, arms, jaw, or neck
pale, cool, or blotchy skin on the arms or legs
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
rapid weight gain
seizures
slow or irregular heartbeat
stopping of heart
stupor
sweating
swelling of the face, ankles, fingers, feet, or lower legs
troubled breathing
unconsciousness
unusual tiredness or weakness
weak or absent pulse in the arms or legs
Abdominal or stomach cramps
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
pale skin
passing of gas
pounding in the head
sensation of spinning
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
sweating
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet