Other dosage forms:
Check with your doctor if any of these most COMMON side effects persist or become bothersome:
Temporary burning or stinging.
Severe allergic reactions (rash; hives; itching; difficulty breathing; tightness in the chest; swelling of the mouth, face, lips, or tongue); changes in vision; eye pain, itching, redness, swelling, irritation, or sores not present when you began using prednisolone/sulfacetamide drops; fever, chills, or sore throat; red, swollen, or blistered skin; severe or persistent blurred vision; unusual tiredness or weakness; yellowing of the eyes or skin
Hypersensitivity reactions to sodium sulfacetamide have been reported rarely.
A case of Stevens Johnson syndrome has been reported in a patient who had previously experienced a bullous drug reaction to an orally administered sulfonamide.
A case of local hypersensitivity which progressed to a fatal syndrome resembling systemic lupus erythematosus has also been reported.
Ocular side effects associated with the prednisolone component have included elevation of intraocular pressure with possible development of glaucoma and infrequent optic nerve damage, posterior subcapsular cataract formation, and delayed wound healing.
Corticosteroid-containing preparations have been reported to cause acute anterior uveitis, perforation of the globe, keratitis, conjunctivitis, corneal ulcers, mydriasis, conjunctival hyperemia, loss of accommodation, and ptosis.
Bacterial, fungal, and viral secondary ocular infections, transient burning and stinging upon instillation, other minor symptoms of ocular irritation, and visual disturbance (blurry vision) have also been reported with the use of ocular corticosteroids.
Local irritation, stinging, and burning have been reported with the use of sodium sulfacetamide.
It is possible that some side effects of Vasocidin may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
eye ointmentophthalmic suspension