As well as its needed effects, panitumumab (the active ingredient contained in Vectibix) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Very common ( or more): Erythema , pruritus , acneiform dermatitis , rash , skin fissures , exfoliative rash , alopecia Common ( to ): Dry skin, nail disorder, skin exfoliation, skin ulcer, pustular rash, popular rash, Palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia syndromePostmarketing reports: Skin necrosis, life threatening and fatal bullous mucocutaneous disease
When used in combination with irinotecan, the incidence and severity of diarrhea is increased.
In a study of  patients who received panitumumab (the active ingredient contained in Vectibix) in combination with irinotecan, -fluorouracil, and leucovorin, the incidence of grade  or  diarrhea was  and was fatal in one patient.
The combination of panitumumab with leucovorin is not recommended.
Very common ( or more): Abdominal pain , nausea , diarrhea , constipation , vomiting Common ( to ): Stomatitis, mucosal inflammation, dry mouth
Very common ( or more): Anorexia , hypomagnesemia , hypokalemia , weight loss  Common ( to ): DehydrationFrequency not reported: Hypocalcemia
Median magnesium levels decreased by  mmol/L.
Hypomagnesemia (grade  or ) requiring oral or IV electrolyte repletion occurred in  of patients.
Hypomagnesemia occurred  weeks or longer after the initiation of panitumumab.
In some patients, hypomagnesemia was associated with hypocalcemia.
Patient's electrolytes should be monitored during and for eight weeks after the completion of panitumumab therapy.
Patients should be periodically monitored for hypomagnesemia and accompanying hypocalcemia during the eight weeks after the completion of panitumumab therapy.
Very common ( or more): Dyspnea , cough Common ( to ): Epistaxis, pulmonary embolismUncommon ( to ): Pulmonary fibrosisFrequency not reported: Nasal dryness, interstitial lung disease (including fatal cases), lung infiltrates
Panitumumab should be permanently discontinued in patients developing interstitial lung disease, pneumonitis, or lung infiltrates.
Common ( to ): Growth of eyelashes, blepharitis, increased lacrimation, ocular hyperemia, dry eye, eye pruritus, eye irritation, conjunctivitisUncommon ( to ): eyelid irritation, keratitisRare (less than ): Ulcerative keratitis
Severe infusion reactions were identified as anaphylactic reaction, bronchospasm, fever, chills, and hypotension.
Although fatal infusion reactions have not been reported with panitumumab (the active ingredient contained in Vectibix)  fatalities have occurred with other monoclonal antibody products.
The infusion should be stopped if a severe infusion reaction occurs.
Depending on the severity and/or persistence of the reaction, panitumumab may need to be permanently discontinued.
Common ( to ): HypersensitivityRare (less than ): Anaphylactic reaction, infusion reaction
Very common ( or more): AnemiaCommon ( to ): Leukopenia
Very common ( or more): Paronychia Common ( to ): Pustular rash, cellulitis, folliculitis, localized infectionUncommon ( to ): Eye infection, eyelid infectionPostmarketing reports: Angioedema
Frequency not reported: Headache
Very common ( or more): Fatigue , peripheral edema Common ( to ): Mucosal inflammation, pyrexia, chills
Frequency not reported: Acute renal failure (in patients who developed diarrhea and dehydration)
It is possible that some side effects of Vectibix may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal or stomach pain
anxiety
bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, ankles, or feet
chest pain
chills
confusion
constipation
convulsions
cough
decreased urination
deep cracks, grooves, or lines in the skin
diarrhea
difficulty with swallowing
discoloration of the fingernails or toenails
drowsiness
dry mouth, lips, or skin
fainting
fast or irregular heartbeat
fever
flushing or redness of the skin
increased thirst
itching, pain, and swelling of the eyelid
itching skin or rash
loosening of the fingernails
loss of appetite
muscle pain or cramps
muscle spasms or twitching
nausea
rapid weight gain
rapid, shallow breathing
redness or soreness around the fingernails
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips, tongue, or inside the mouth
sudden shortness of breath
sunken eyes
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
tearing of the eyes
tingling of the hands or feet
trembling
troubled breathing
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight gain or loss
unusually warm skin
vomiting
Blurred vision
burning, dry, or itching eyes
discharge from the eyes or excessive tearing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
facial swelling
headache
hives
noisy breathing
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
sweating
swelling of the eye, eyelid, or inner lining of the eyelid
tightness in the chest
Chest discomfort
painful breathing
quick, shallow breathing
slight fever
Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, or warmth at the injection site
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs