Commonly reported side effects of vedolizumab include: nasopharyngitis.
Other side effects include: upper respiratory tract infection and fatigue.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, vedolizumab may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some vedolizumab side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most common adverse reactions were nasopharyngitis, headache, arthralgia, nausea, pyrexia, upper respiratory tract infection, fatigue, cough, bronchitis, influenza, back pain, rash, pruritus, sinusitis, oropharyngeal pain, and pain in extremities.
Common ( to ): Rash, pruritus
Common ( to ): Nausea, oropharyngeal painFrequency not reported: Anal abscess
Frequency not reported: Urinary tract infection
Frequency not reported: Elevations of transaminase, elevations of bilirubin, hepatitis, ALT elevations, AST elevations
Infusion related reactions were nausea, headache, pruritus, dizziness, fatigue, pyrexia, urticaria and vomiting.
Anaphylaxis symptoms were dyspnea, bronchospasm, urticaria, flushing, rash and increased blood pressure and heart rate, and were managed with discontinuation of infusion and treatment with antihistamine and intravenous hydrocortisone.
Common ( to ): Infusion related reactionRare (less than ): Anaphylaxis
Uncommon ( to ): Bacterial sepsis, septic shockFrequency not reported: Sepsis, tuberculosis, salmonella sepsis, Listeria meningitis, giardiasis, cytomegaloviral colitis
Very common ( or more): Arthralgia Common ( to ): Back pain, pain in extremities
Very common ( or more): Headache 
Rare (less than ): Transitional cell carcinoma, carcinoid tumor of the appendixFrequency not reported: B-cell lymphoma, breast cancer, colon cancer, malignant hepatic neoplasm, malignant lung neoplasm, malignant melanoma, lung cancer of primary neuroendocrine carcinoma, renal cancer, squamous cell carcinoma
Common ( to ): Pyrexia, fatigue
Very common ( or more): Nasopharyngitis , Common ( to ): Upper respiratory tract infection, cough, bronchitis, influenza, sinusitis
It is possible that some side effects of vedolizumab may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Body aches or pain
chills
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
fever
headache
loss of voice
nasal congestion
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness
Back pain
chest tightness
flushing
nausea and vomiting
weakness
Cough
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
hives, itching, or skin rash
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
tightness in the chest
Abdominal or stomach pain
blurred vision
clay-colored stools
confusion
convulsions
dark urine
drowsiness
headache
loss of appetite
lower back or side pain
painful or difficult urination
unpleasant breath odor
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin
Difficulty with moving
muscle pain or stiffness
pain in the joints