Common side effects of Venofer include: hypotension.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, iron sucrose (the active ingredient contained in Venofer) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some iron sucrose side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Hypotension has been reported in all patients receiving intravenous iron with the highest incidence reported in HDD-CKD patients.
Hypotension following administration of iron sucrose (the active ingredient contained in Venofer) may be related to both the rate of administration and total dose administered; therefore, caution should be taken to ensure administration of iron sucrose according to the manufacturer recommended guidelines.
Cardiovascular side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose in the treatment of HDD-CKD have included chest pain , cardiac murmur , hypertension , hypotension , and fluid overload .
Cardiovascular side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose in the treatment of NDD-CKD have included chest pain , cardiac murmur , hypertension , hypotension , and fluid overload .
Cardiovascular side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose in the treatment of PDD-CKD have included chest pain , hypertension , hypotension , and fluid overload .
Musculoskeletal side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose (the active ingredient contained in Venofer) in the treatment of HDD-CKD have included arthralgia , back pain , muscle cramp , and pain in extremity .
Musculoskeletal side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose in the treatment of NDD-CKD have included arthralgia , back pain , muscle cramp , myalgia , and pain in extremity .
Musculoskeletal side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose in the treatment of PDD-CKD have included arthralgia , back pain , muscle cramp , myalgia , and pain in extremity .
Gastrointestinal side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose (the active ingredient contained in Venofer) in the treatment of HDD-CKD have included abdominal pain , constipation , diarrhea , dysgeusia , nausea , and vomiting .
Gastrointestinal side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose in the treatment of NDD-CKD have included abdominal pain , constipation , diarrhea , dysgeusia , nausea , and vomiting .
Gastrointestinal side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose in the treatment of PDD-CKD have included abdominal pain , constipation , diarrhea , nausea , and vomiting .
Dry mouth has also been reported.
Nervous system side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose (the active ingredient contained in Venofer) in the treatment of HDD-CKD have included dizziness , headache , and asthenia .
Nervous system side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose in the treatment of NDD-CKD have included dizziness , headache , hypoesthesia , and asthenia .
Nervous system side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose in the treatment of PDD-CKD have included dizziness , headache , and asthenia .
Respiratory side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose (the active ingredient contained in Venofer) in the treatment of HDD-CKD have included cough , dyspnea , upper respiratory infection , pharyngitis , and nasopharyngitis .
Respiratory side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose in the treatment of NDD-CKD have included cough , dyspnea , exacerbated dyspnea , nasal congestion , sinusitis , upper respiratory infection , allergic rhinitis , and nasopharyngitis .
Respiratory side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose in the treatment of PDD-CKD have included nasopharyngitis , sinusitis , upper respiratory tract infection , cough , dyspnea , nasal congestion , and pharyngitis .
Pneumonia and cough have also been reported.
Local side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose (the active ingredient contained in Venofer) in the treatment of NDD-CKD have included burning , extravasation , and pain  at the injection site.
Dermatologic side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose (the active ingredient contained in Venofer) in the treatment of HDD-CKD have included pruritus  and rash .
Dermatologic side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose in the treatment of NDD-CKD have included pruritus  and rash .
Dermatologic side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose in the treatment of PDD-CKD have included pruritus .
Hepatic side effects have included elevated liver enzymes ( to ).
Immunologic side effects have included a possible increase in susceptibility to infections.
Endocrine side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose (the active ingredient contained in Venofer) in the treatment of HDD-CKD have included hypoglycemia .
Endocrine side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose in the treatment of NDD-CKD have included gout , hyperglycemia , and hypoglycemia .
Endocrine side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose in the treatment of PDD-CKD have included hypoglycemia .
Other side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose (the active ingredient contained in Venofer) in the treatment of HDD-CKD have included edema , fatigue , feeling abnormal , peripheral edema , pyrexia , and graft complication .
Other side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose in the treatment of NDD-CKD have included ear pain , edema , fatigue , peripheral edema , pyrexia , and graft complication .
Other side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose in the treatment of PDD-CKD have included peripheral edema , pyrexia , catheter site infection , and peritoneal infection .
Accidental injury and fever have also been reported.
Genitourinary side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose (the active ingredient contained in Venofer) in the treatment of HDD-CKD have included urinary tract infection .
Genitourinary side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose in the treatment of NDD-CKD have included urinary tract infection  and proteinuria.
Genitourinary side effects associated with the use of iron sucrose in the treatment of PDD-CKD have included urinary tract infection .
Hypersensitivity side effects have included wheezing, dyspnea, hypotension, rashes, and pruritus.
Hypersensitivity reactions to iron sucrose (the active ingredient contained in Venofer) are reported to occur in less than  of patients.
Anaphylactic reactions consisting of anaphylactic shock, loss of consciousness or collapse, bronchospasm with dyspnea, and/or convulsion have also been reported.
Serious hypotensive episodes have been reported in two patients following administration of iron sucrose at a dosage of  mg.
Between  and February , a total of  reports of anaphylactoid reactions including serious or life-threatening reactions have been collected in postmarketing spontaneous reporting worldwide based on estimated use in over  million patients.
Four U.
S.
trials involving the administration of iron sucrose to patients with HDD-CKD (n=,) included   patients who reportedly had a previous history of intravenous iron therapy and were reported to be intolerant, that is, precluded from further use of that iron product.
Following administration of iron sucrose, it was reported that none of these patients had an adverse reaction that would preclude them from further use of iron sucrose.
Ocular side effects associated with the use iron sucrose (the active ingredient contained in Venofer) in the treatment of HDD-CKD have included conjunctivitis .
Ocular side effects associated with the use iron sucrose in the treatment of PDD-CKD have included conjunctivitis .
It is possible that some side effects of Venofer may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
blurred vision
chest pain or tightness in the chest
confusion
difficult or labored breathing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
headache
nervousness
pounding in the ears
rapid weight gain
slow or fast heartbeat
sweating
tingling of the hands or feet
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight gain or loss
Fever
Chest discomfort
difficulty swallowing
hives or itching
increased sweating
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of consciousness
noisy breathing
slow or irregular heartbeat
swelling of the joints
Change in taste
diarrhea
muscle cramps
nausea or vomiting
pain in the arms or legs
pain or burning sensation in the injection site
Abdominal or stomach pain
ankle, knee, or great toe joint pain
body aches or pain
chills
difficulty with moving
ear congestion or pain
flushed, dry skin
fruit-like breath odor
increased hunger or thirst
increased urination
lack or loss of strength
pain or redness at the injection site
pale skin at the injection site
runny nose, sneezing
sore throat
unexplained weight loss
Burning, dry, or itching eyes
discharge or excessive tearing
redness, pain, or swelling of the eye, eyelid, or inner lining of the eyelid