More frequent side effects include: abdominal pain, constipation, lower abdominal pain, nausea, upper abdominal pain, and vomiting.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, eluxadoline (the active ingredient contained in Viberzi) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking eluxadoline, check with your doctor immediately:
Some eluxadoline side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most commonly reported adverse reactions included constipation, nausea, and abdominal pain.
Common ( to ): Constipation, nausea, abdominal pain, vomiting, abdominal distention, flatulence, viral gastroenteritisUncommon ( to ): Sphincter of Oddi spasm, pancreatitisFrequency not reported: Gastroesophageal reflux disease
Sphincter of Oddi spasm occurred in  (n=) and  (n=) of patients receiving  mg and  mg twice a day, respectively.
Sphincter of Oddi spasm manifested as abdominal pain with lipase elevation of less than  times the upper limit of normal in  patient, and elevated hepatic enzymes associated with abdominal pain in the second patient.
For the  patients taking  mg twice a day, sphincter of Oddi spasm manifested in  patient as pancreatitis and as elevated hepatic enzymes associated with abdominal pain in the other  patients.
Of  patients with a gallbladder, no patients experienced a sphincter of Oddi spasm, while  of  patients and  of  patients in the  mg and  mg twice a day groups, respectively, experienced sphincter of Oddi spasm.
Onset of symptoms occurred within the first week in  ( of ) of patients and no cases occurred greater than  month after treatment onset.
The  case of sphincter of Oddi spasm-induced pancreatitis occurred within minutes of taking the first dose of the drug and resolved within  hours of discontinuation.
Pancreatitis not associated with sphincter of Oddi spasm was reported in  (n=) and  (n=) of patients receiving  mg and  mg twice a day, respectively.
Of these  cases,  were associated with excessive alcohol intake,  with biliary sludge, and  was reported  weeks after the patient discontinued therapy.
All resolved within  week of therapy discontinuation.
Constipation was the most commonly reported adverse event in clinical trials with  of case reported within the first  weeks, and the majority within the first  months.
Rates of severe constipation were less than .
After  months, the incidence of constipation was similar across active treatment and placebo groups.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease was reported in  or less of patients in clinical trials.
Increased AST was reported in  or less of patients in clinical trials.
Frequency not reported: Increased AST
Common ( to ): Upper respiratory tract infection, nasopharyngitis, bronchitisFrequency not reported: Asthma, bronchospasm, respiratory failure, wheezing
Asthma, bronchospasm, respiratory failure, and wheezing were reported in  or less of patients in clinical trials.
Common ( to ): Rash
Rash included terms such as dermatitis, dermatitis allergic, rash, rash erythematous, rash generalized, rash maculopapular, rash popular, rash pruritic, urticaria, and idiopathic urticaria.
Common ( to ): DizzinessFrequency not reported: Sedation, somnolence
Sedation and somnolence was reported in  or less of patients in clinical trials.
Euphoric mood was reported in  or less of patients in clinical trials.
Frequency not reported: Euphoric mood
Feeling drunk was reported in  or less of patients in clinical trials.
Common ( to ): FatigueFrequency not reported: Feeling drunk
It is possible that some side effects of Viberzi may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Bloating
chills
constipation
darkened urine
fast heartbeat
fever
indigestion
loss of appetite
nausea
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
vomiting
yellow eyes or skin
Body aches or pain
chills
cough
cough producing mucus
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
excess air or gas in the stomach or intestines
fever
full feeling
headache
loss of voice
muscle aches
passing gas
pressure in the stomach
rash
sneezing
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
swelling of abdominal or stomach area
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness