Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, doxycycline (the active ingredient contained in Vibra-Tabs) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking doxycycline, check with your doctor immediately:
Some doxycycline side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Benign intracranial hypertension resulting in significant loss of vision has been reported.
A 70-year-old female patient with no significant medical history suddenly developed a severe headache followed by vomiting about 15 minutes after the initial dose of doxycycline (the active ingredient contained in Vibra-Tabs)   The patient also experienced memory dysfunction; she could not remember the events of the afternoon prior to the doxycycline dose and could not retain the information after she was reminded.
The incident lasted about 30 minutes and she was transported to the hospital for further evaluation.
No further cause, such as intoxication or trauma, could be elicited.
Once at the hospital, the patient was able to remember the events of the afternoon and could retain new information, but amnesia regarding the events of the 30 minutes following the onset of the headache persisted.
The patient's laboratory results, CT scan, MRI scan, cerebrospinal fluid, and EEG showed no pathology.
When the patient was discharged 2 days later, the amnesia for the 30 minutes continued.
After elimination of other symptomatic causes, the amnesia was concluded to be due to the doxycycline because of the close relation of the doxycycline dose and the onset of symptoms.
Very common (10% or more): Headache (up to 26%)Frequency not reported: Sinus headache, dizziness, drowsiness, amnesia, paresthesias of body areas exposed to sunlight, phrenic nerve paralysis after sclerotherapyPostmarketing reports: Pseudotumor cerebri (benign intracranial hypertension), headacheTetracyclines:Frequency not reported: Bulging fontanels in infants, benign intracranial hypertension (pseudotumor cerebri) in adults
Very common (10% or more): Nausea (up to 13.
4%)Common (1% to 10%): Vomiting (8.
1%), toothache (7%), tooth disorder (6%), dyspepsia (6%), diarrhea (up to 6%), periodontal abscess (4%), acid indigestion (4%), upper abdominal pain (2%), abdominal distention (1%), abdominal pain (1%), stomach discomfort (1%), dry mouth (1%)Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Gum pain (less than 1%)Rare (less than 0.
1%): Adult tooth staining (at least 1 case)Frequency not reported: Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea, esophageal irritation, ulceration, epigastric burning, black hairy tongueTetracyclines:Frequency not reported: Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, glossitis, dysphagia, enterocolitis, inflammatory lesions (with monilial overgrowth) in the anogenital region, esophagitis, esophageal ulcerations
Numerous cases of esophageal ulceration have been reported.
In most of the cases the patients had taken their medication at bedtime, usually without enough liquid.
Patients often present with severe retrosternal pain and difficulty swallowing.
Ulcerations generally resolve within a week after discontinuation of the medication.
One case report describes severe hiccups of 4-day duration associated with esophagitis following the first dose of doxycycline.
Esophagitis and esophageal ulcerations have been reported in patients receiving capsule and tablet formulations of tetracycline-class drugs.
Most took medication immediately before going to bed.
Very common (10% or more): Common cold (22%), influenza symptoms (11%)Common (1% to 10%): Injury (5%), pain (up to 4%), back pain (up to 3%), back ache (2%), infection (2%), fungal infection (2%), influenza (2%)Frequency not reported: Possible overgrowth of nonsusceptible organisms (superinfection)Tetracyclines:Frequency not reported: Microscopic brown-black discoloration of the thyroid gland
The long-term use of tetracyclines has been associated with microscopic brown-black discoloration of the thyroid gland; abnormal thyroid function has not been reported.
Common (1% to 10%): Joint pain (6%), muscle pain (1%)
Common (1% to 10%): Nasopharyngitis (5%), sore throat (5%), sinus congestion (5%), coughing (4%), sinus headache (up to 4%), sinusitis (3%), bronchitis (3%), nasal congestion (2%), pharyngolaryngeal pain (1%)
Common (1% to 10%): Rash (4%)Frequency not reported: Nail discoloration, phototoxicity, photoallergic reaction, photo-onycholysisTetracyclines:Frequency not reported: Photosensitivity, maculopapular and erythematous rashes, erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, exfoliative dermatitis, hyperpigmentation
In a double-blinded study, doxycycline was found to be more phototoxic than minocycline and demeclocycline.
Paresthesias of the body areas exposed to sunlight may be early signs of sunburn reactions.
A case report of a possible photoallergic reaction describes scaly erythema and vesicles on the face and neck associated with doxycycline administration.
Upon rechallenge, a flare with erythema, itching and burning occurred in the same area.
Another case report was documented in Australian troops treated with doxycycline 100 mg daily for malaria prophylaxis while on deployment in East Timor, a group of islands within the Malaysian archipelago located close to the equator.
Of the 135 troops, 22 exhibited phototoxic reactions to low dosages of doxycycline that resembled severe sunburn with erythematous plaques on the sun-exposed areas.
The troops used a sunscreen containing oxybenzone.
An 11-year-old boy treated with doxycycline for brucellosis was evaluated for painless brown nail discoloration.
Doxycycline was initiated for brucellosis but stopped when the boy developed photosensitivity, but 15 days after the initiation of therapy brown nail discoloration developed.
Other than the brown discoloration, the boy's physical condition was normal and the discoloration disappeared within one month.
Common (1% to 10%): Menstrual cramp (4%), bacterial vaginitis (3.
3%), vulvovaginal mycotic infection (2%)Frequency not reported: Vaginal itchTetracyclines:Frequency not reported: Vaginal candidiasis
Common (1% to 10%): Hypertension (3%), increased blood pressure (2%)
Common (1% to 10%): Increased aspartate aminotransferase (2%)Frequency not reported: Acute hepatocellular injury, cholestatic reactionsTetracyclines:Frequency not reported: Hepatotoxicity
Hypoglycemia in a nondiabetic patient has been reported.
Common (1% to 10%): Increased blood lactate dehydrogenase (2%), increased blood glucose (1%)Frequency not reported: HypoglycemiaTetracyclines:Frequency not reported: Anorexia
Common (1% to 10%): Anxiety (2%)
Tetracyclines:Frequency not reported: Hypersensitivity reactions (including urticaria, angioneurotic edema, anaphylaxis, anaphylactoid purpura, serum sickness, pericarditis, exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus, drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms [DRESS])
Tetracyclines:Frequency not reported: Hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, eosinophilia
Frequency not reported: Diplopia, papilledema, loss of vision (associated with doxycycline-induced benign intracranial hypertension)
Tetracyclines:Frequency not reported: Dose-related rise in BUN
Tetracyclines:Frequency not reported: Autoimmune syndromes
It is possible that some side effects of Vibra-Tabs may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
subgingival kit
Abdominal or stomach tenderness
bloating
clay-colored stools
cough
dark urine
decreased appetite
diarrhea
diarrhea, watery and severe, which may also be bloody
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
feeling of discomfort
fever
headache
hives, itching, puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
hives or welts, itching, or rash
increased thirst
inflammation of the joints
joint or muscle pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of appetite
nausea and vomiting
numbness or tingling of the face, hands, or feet
pain
redness and soreness of the eyes
redness of the skin
sore throat
sores in the mouth
stomach cramps
stomach pain or tenderness
swelling of the feet or lower legs
swollen lymph glands
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusual weight loss
yellow eyes or skin
Back, leg, or stomach pains
black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
blurred vision
bulging soft spot on the head of an infant
change in the ability to see colors, especially blue or yellow
chest pain, discomfort, or burning
chills
cracks in the skin
decrease in vision
difficulty breathing
discoloration of the thyroid glands
double vision
general body swelling
heartburn
increased sensitivity of the skin to sunlight
loss of heat from the body
lower back or side pain
nosebleeds
pain or burning in the throat
pain with swallowing
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
rash with flat lesions or small raised lesions on the skin
red, swollen skin
redness or other discoloration of the skin
redness, swelling, or soreness of the tongue
scaly skin
severe nausea
severe stomach pain
severe sunburn
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or tongue or inside the mouth
unusual bleeding or bruising
vomiting blood