Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, dasabuvir / ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking dasabuvir / ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir, check with your doctor immediately:
Some dasabuvir / ombitasvir / paritaprevir / ritonavir side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Side effects reported more often with this product in combination with ribavirin compared to placebo were fatigue, nausea, pruritus, other skin reactions, insomnia, and asthenia; most were mild to moderate in severity.
Less than  of patients permanently discontinued therapy (with or without ribavirin) due to side effects.
In patients with genotype  hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection (including those with cirrhosis) using this product, the most common side effects were fatigue and nausea.
Therapy was permanently discontinued due to side effects in  of patients;  interrupted therapy due to side effects.
Ribavirin dose was reduced due to side effects in  of patients.
In patients with genotype  HCV infection using ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir plus dasabuvir without ribavirin, pruritus was the only side effect reported in at least  of patients when compared to studies including placebo and ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir plus dasabuvir and ribavirin.
Therapy was permanently discontinued due to side effects in  of patients;  interrupted therapy due to side effects.
In patients with compensated cirrhosis using this product with ribavirin, fatigue, skin reactions, and dyspnea were reported more often in those treated for  weeks than for  weeks.
Most side effects occurred during the first  weeks.
Therapy was permanently discontinued due to side effects in  of patients.
The most common side effects reported with this product in combination with ribavirin in HCV/HIV- coinfected patients on stable antiretroviral therapy were fatigue, insomnia, nausea, headache, pruritus, cough, irritability, and ocular icterus.
The most common side effects reported with this product in combination with ribavirin in  post-liver transplant patients with recurrent HCV infection were fatigue, headache, cough, diarrhea, insomnia, asthenia, nausea, muscle spasms, and rash.
If applicable, the manufacturer product information for ribavirin should be consulted for ribavirin-associated side effects.
Very common ( or more): Elevated total bilirubin (up to ), elevated ALT (up to )Frequency not reported: Drug-related liver injury, jaundice, hyperbilirubinemiaPostmarketing reports: Hepatic decompensation, hepatic failure
Grade  (greater than  to  times the upper limit of normal [ to  x ULN]) and grade  (greater than  x ULN) total bilirubin elevations have been reported in up to  and  of patients, respectively.
Grade  (greater than  to  x ULN) and grade  (greater than  x ULN) ALT elevations have been reported in up to  and up to  of patients, respectively.
Post-baseline bilirubin elevations (at least  x ULN) occurred in  of patients using this product with ribavirin compared to  of those using this product alone.
These increases were primarily indirect and associated with inhibition of OATPB/B (bilirubin transporters) by paritaprevir and ribavirin-induced hemolysis.
Bilirubin elevations occurred after therapy initiation, peaked by week  of the study, and usually resolved with ongoing therapy.
Elevated bilirubin was not associated with elevated serum ALT.
Elevations in total bilirubin greater than  x ULN (mostly indirect) were reported in  of  HCV/HIV- coinfected patients using this product with ribavirin.
At the time of bilirubin elevation,  of these patients were also using atazanavir and  patients also reported ocular icterus, jaundice, or hyperbilirubinemia.
No concurrent elevations of aminotransferases occurred with hyperbilirubinemia.
About  of patients had post-baseline serum ALT levels greater than  times the upper limit of normal ( x ULN) during therapy; incidence increased to  (/) in women concurrently using a product containing ethinyl estradiol.
Clinically relevant ALT elevations were reported in  of  women using estrogens other than ethinyl estradiol (, estradiol, conjugated estrogens [hormone replacement therapy]).
ALT elevations were usually asymptomatic, occurred during the first  weeks of therapy ( days [mean]; range:  to  days), and resolved with continued use.
Most ALT elevations were assessed as drug-related liver injury.
Elevated ALT was usually not associated with elevated bilirubin.
Cirrhosis was not a risk factor for elevated ALT.
Hepatic decompensation and hepatic failure (including liver transplantation or fatal outcomes) have been reported in patients using ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir (with and without dasabuvir and with and without ribavirin).
Most patients with these severe outcomes had evidence of advanced/decompensated cirrhosis before starting therapy.
Cases were generally reported within  to  weeks of starting therapy and characterized by acute onset of rising direct serum bilirubin levels without increases in ALT together with clinical signs/symptoms of hepatic decompensation.
Very common ( or more): Fatigue (up to ), asthenia (up to )
Fatigue was reported in  of HCV/HIV- coinfected patients using this product with ribavirin.
Fatigue  and asthenia  were reported in post-liver transplant patients using this product with ribavirin.
Headache was reported in  of HCV/HIV- coinfected patients and  of post-liver transplant patients using this product with ribavirin.
Very common ( or more): Headache (up to )Common ( to ): Dizziness
Cough was reported in  of HCV/HIV- coinfected patients and  of post-liver transplant patients using this product with ribavirin.
Very common ( or more): Cough (up to )Common ( to ): Dyspnea
Very common ( or more): Diarrhea , nausea (up to )Common ( to ): Vomiting
Nausea was reported in  of HCV/HIV- coinfected patients using this product with ribavirin.
Diarrhea  and nausea  were reported in post-liver transplant patients using this product with ribavirin.
Pruritus was reported in  of HCV/HIV- coinfected patients using this product with ribavirin.
Rash was reported in  of post-liver transplant patients using this product with ribavirin.
Very common ( or more): Skin reactions (includes rash, erythema, eczema, maculopapular rash, macular rash, dermatitis, papular rash, skin exfoliation, pruritic rash, erythematous rash, generalized rash, allergic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, exfoliative rash, dermatitis, photosensitivity reaction, psoriasis, skin reaction, ulcer, urticaria; up to ), pruritus (includes pruritus, generalized pruritus; up to )Common ( to ): Rash-related events, dry skin
Muscle spasms were reported in  of post-liver transplant patients using this product with ribavirin.
Very common ( or more): Muscle spasms 
Insomnia  and irritability  were reported in HCV/HIV- coinfected patients using this product with ribavirin.
Insomnia was reported in  of post-liver transplant patients using this product with ribavirin.
Very common ( or more): Insomnia (up to ), irritability Common ( to ): Sleep disorder
Very common ( or more): Ocular icterus 
Ocular icterus was reported in  of HCV/HIV- coinfected patients using this product with ribavirin.
Grade  ( to less than  g/dL), grade  ( to less than  g/dL), and grade  (less than  g/dL) hemoglobin decreases have been reported in up to , up to , and up to  of patients, respectively.
In phase  trials, the change from baseline in hemoglobin levels averaged - g/dL in patients using this product with ribavirin and - g/dL in patients using this product alone.
Hemoglobin level decreased early in therapy (week  or ) with further decreases through week   Low hemoglobin values persisted throughout therapy and returned towards baseline levels by  weeks after therapy.
Less than  of patients using this product with ribavirin had hemoglobin levels decrease to less than  g/dL during therapy and  had their ribavirin dose reduced due to decreased hemoglobin levels;  patients received a blood transfusion and  required erythropoietin.
Therapy was discontinued due to anemia in  patient.
No patients using this product alone had hemoglobin levels less than  g/dL.
At least  post-baseline hemoglobin value less than  g/dL was reported in  of  HCV/HIV- coinfected patients using this product with ribavirin.
Ribavirin dose was modified in  of these patients; no patient required a blood transfusion or erythropoietin.
In HCV/HIV- coinfected patients using this product with ribavirin, CD+ T-cell count decreases averaged  cells/mm and  cells/mm by the end of  and  weeks of therapy, respectively; most returned to baseline levels posttreatment.
During therapy, CD+ T-cell counts decreased to less than  cells/mm (without a decrease in CD) in  patients.
No AIDS-related opportunistic infection occurred.
Common ( to ): Anemia, hemoglobin decreasedFrequency not reported: Decreased CD+ T-cell counts
Postmarketing reports: Hypersensitivity reactions (including angioedema/tongue and lip swelling)
Common ( to ): Decreased appetite
It is possible that some side effects of Viekira Pak may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
oral tablet extended release
Abdominal or stomach pain
bloating of the abdomen or stomach
dark urine
light-colored stools
nausea and vomiting
yellow eyes or skin
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
chills
cough
diarrhea
itching
joint or muscle pain
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
unusual tiredness or weakness
Itching skin or rash
lack or loss of strength
trouble sleeping