Common side effects of Viramune include: nausea and skin rash.
Other side effects include: severe dermatological reaction, abnormal hepatic function tests, fever, and headache.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, nevirapine (the active ingredient contained in Viramune) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking nevirapine, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking nevirapine, get emergency help immediately:
Some nevirapine side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Serious adverse effects can occur with nevirapine (the active ingredient contained in Viramune)   The most serious side effects have included hepatitis, hepatic failure, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and hypersensitivity reactions.
Hepatitis/hepatic failure may be isolated or associated with signs of hypersensitivity which may include severe rash or rash accompanied by fever, general malaise, fatigue, muscle or joint aches, blisters, oral lesions, conjunctivitis, facial edema, eosinophilia, granulocytopenia, lymphadenopathy, or renal dysfunction.
The first  weeks of therapy with nevirapine are a critical period during which it is essential that patients be monitored intensively to detect potentially life-threatening hepatotoxicity or skin reactions.
Nevirapine should not be restarted following clinical hepatitis, or transaminase elevations combined with rash or other systemic symptoms, or following severe skin rash or hypersensitivity reactions.
Side effects reported during postmarketing experience were associated with use of the immediate-release formulation.
Very common ( or more): Rash (including maculopapular erythematous cutaneous eruptions, with or without pruritus)Common ( to ): Moderate or severe rash (including rash, maculopapular rash, erythema nodosum, erythematous rash, papular rash, skin reaction, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms; up to )Frequency not reported: Severe and life-threatening skin reactions (including fatal cases), toxic epidermal necrolysis, allergic dermatitis
The most common clinical toxicity was rash.
Rashes were usually mild to moderate, maculopapular erythematous cutaneous eruptions, with or without pruritus, located on the face, trunk, and extremities.
Rash has occurred most often during the first  weeks of therapy.
Utilization of the -day lead-in period with immediate-release nevirapine has been shown to reduce the frequency of rash.
During clinical trials, Grade  and  rashes were reported in  of patients taking immediate-release nevirapine during the first  weeks of therapy.
Grade  and  rashes were reported in  of immediate-release nevirapine-treated patients.
During one study, side effects of at least moderate intensity included rash (including rash, maculopapular rash, erythema nodosum, erythematous rash, papular rash, skin reaction, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms) in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
Severe and life-threatening skin reactions, including fatal cases, have been reported.
These have included cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and hypersensitivity reactions characterized by rash, constitutional findings, and organ dysfunction.
Women tended to be at greater risk of nevirapine-associated rash.
Rash was reported in about half of patients with symptomatic hepatic side effects.
Very common ( or more): Elevated SGPT/ALT (up to ), symptomatic hepatic events (regardless of severity: up to )Common ( to ): Elevated SGOT/AST (up to ), asymptomatic transaminase elevations (AST or ALT greater than  times upper limit of normal [ULN]: up to ), clinical hepatitis (including hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, acute hepatitis, liver disorder, toxic hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice; up to ), elevated bilirubin (greater than  mg/dL: ), asymptomatic elevations in gamma-glutamyltransferaseFrequency not reported: Liver enzyme abnormalities (AST, ALT), elevated alkaline phosphatase, severe and life-threatening hepatotoxicity (including fatal cases), progression to hepatic failure (with transaminase elevation, with or without hyperbilirubinemia, hepatic encephalopathy, prolonged partial thromboplastin time, or eosinophilia)Postmarketing reports: Jaundice, fulminant and cholestatic hepatitis, hepatic necrosis, hepatic failure
Risk of symptomatic hepatic events (regardless of severity) was greatest in the first  weeks and continued to be greater in the nevirapine groups compared to controls through  weeks of therapy.
Female gender and higher CD+ cell counts at the start of therapy place patients at increased risk of hepatic events (including potentially fatal events).
Women with CD+ cell counts greater than  cells/mm (including pregnant women using nevirapine with other antiretrovirals to treat HIV- infection) are at greatest risk.
However, nevirapine-associated hepatotoxicity can develop in both genders, all CD+ cell counts, and at any time during therapy.
Coinfection with hepatitis B or C and/or increased transaminases at the start of nevirapine therapy are associated with a greater risk of later symptomatic events ( weeks or more after starting nevirapine) and asymptomatic increases in AST or ALT.
Rash was reported in about half of patients with symptomatic hepatic side effects.
Fever and influenza-like symptoms accompanied some hepatic events.
Following the lead-in period, the incidence of any hepatic event was  with the immediate-release formulation and  with the extended-release formulation.
Symptomatic hepatic events (anorexia, jaundice, vomiting) were reported in  and  of patients using the immediate-release and extended-release formulations, respectively.
The incidence of Grade  or  ALT/AST elevation was  with each formulation.
During one study, side effects of at least moderate intensity included clinical hepatitis (including hepatitis, hepatotoxicity, acute hepatitis, liver disorder, toxic hepatitis, hepatic failure, jaundice) in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
In controlled studies, liver enzyme abnormalities (AST, ALT) occurred more frequently in patients receiving nevirapine.
Elevated SGPT/ALT (greater than  units/L: up to ) has been reported with the immediate-release formulation.
Grade  elevated SGPT/ALT ( to  times ULN) was reported in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
Grade  elevated SGPT/ALT ( to  times ULN) was reported in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
Grade  elevated SGPT/ALT (greater than  times ULN) was reported in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
Elevated SGOT/AST (greater than  units/L: up to ) has been reported with the immediate-release formulation.
Grade  elevated SGOT/AST ( to  times ULN) was reported in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
Grade  elevated SGOT/AST ( to  times ULN) was reported in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
Grade  elevated SGOT/AST (greater than  times ULN) was reported in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
Severe, life-threatening, and in some cases fatal, hepatotoxicity (including fulminant and cholestatic hepatitis, hepatic necrosis, and hepatic failure) has been reported.
In some cases, patients presented with nonspecific prodromal signs or symptoms of hepatitis (including fatigue, malaise, anorexia, nausea, jaundice, liver tenderness or hepatomegaly, with or without initially abnormal transaminase levels).
Some events (particularly those with rash and other symptoms) progressed to hepatic failure with transaminase elevation, with or without hyperbilirubinemia, hepatic encephalopathy, prolonged partial thromboplastin time, or eosinophilia.
Patients without HIV using nevirapine for postexposure prophylaxis have reported serious hepatotoxicity, including hepatic failure.
Grade  decreased neutrophils ( to /mm) was reported in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
Grade  decreased neutrophils ( to /mm) was reported in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
Grade  decreased neutrophils (less than /mm) was reported in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
Very common ( or more): Decreased neutrophils (less than /mm: up to )Common ( to ): Decreased hemoglobin (less than  g/dL: up to ), granulocytopenia (moderate or severe intensity: up to )Uncommon ( to ): Decreased platelets (less than ,/mm: up to )Postmarketing reports: Anemia, neutropenia, eosinophilia
Postmarketing reports: Allergic reactions (including anaphylaxis, angioedema, bullous eruptions, ulcerative stomatitis, urticaria), hypersensitivity syndrome, hypersensitivity reactions with rash (associated with constitutional findings such as fever, blistering, oral lesions, conjunctivitis, facial edema, muscle or joint aches, general malaise, fatigue, or significant hepatic abnormalities, drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms plus hepatitis, eosinophilia, granulocytopenia, lymphadenopathy, and/or renal dysfunction)
Very common ( or more): Decreased phosphate (up to ), elevated cholesterol (up to ), elevated LDL (up to )Frequency not reported: Hyperlactatemia, unspecified metabolic alterations, elevated total cholesterol, elevated triglycerides, elevated alkaline phosphatase, acute porphyriaPostmarketing reports: Redistribution/accumulation of body fat (including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement, peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, "cushingoid appearance"), decreased serum phosphorus
Grade  decreased phosphate was reported in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
Grade  decreased phosphate was reported in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
Grade  decreased phosphate was reported in less than  of patients using the immediate-release formulation.
Grade  elevated cholesterol ( to  mg/dL) was reported in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
Grade  elevated cholesterol (greater than  mg/dL) was reported in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
Grade  elevated LDL ( to  mg/dL) was reported in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
Grade  elevated LDL (greater than  mg/dL) was reported in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
Common ( to ): Nausea (moderate or severe intensity: up to ), elevated amylase (up to ), diarrhea (moderate or severe intensity: up to ), abdominal pain (moderate or severe intensity: up to )Frequency not reported: AnorexiaPostmarketing reports: Vomiting
During one study, side effects of at least moderate intensity included diarrhea (immediate-release: ; extended-release: ), abdominal pain (immediate-release: ; extended-release: ), and nausea (immediate-release: ; extended-release: ).
Grade  elevated amylase ( to  times ULN) was reported in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
Grade  elevated amylase ( to  times ULN) was reported in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
Grade  elevated amylase (greater than  times ULN) was reported in less than  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
During one study, side effects of at least moderate intensity included fatigue (immediate-release: ; extended-release: ) and pyrexia (immediate-release: ; extended-release: ).
Fever and influenza-like symptoms accompanied some hepatic events.
Common ( to ): Fatigue (moderate or severe intensity: up to ), pyrexia (moderate or severe intensity: up to )Frequency not reported: Fever, asthenia, influenza-like symptomsPostmarketing reports: Fever, drug withdrawal (as a result of drug interactions)
Common ( to ): Headache (moderate or severe intensity: up to )Frequency not reported: NeuropathyPostmarketing reports: Somnolence, paresthesia
During one study, side effects of at least moderate intensity included headache in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
During one study, side effects of at least moderate intensity included arthralgia in  of patients using the immediate-release formulation and  of patients using the extended-release formulation.
Common ( to ): Arthralgia (moderate or severe intensity: )Uncommon ( to ): Myalgia (moderate or severe intensity: up to )Frequency not reported: Arthromyalgia, arthritisPostmarketing reports: Rhabdomyolysis associated with skin and/or liver reactions, arthralgia
Frequency not reported: Immune reconstitution syndrome, autoimmune disorders in the setting of immune reconstitution (, Graves' disease, polymyositis, Guillain-Barre syndrome)
Rare (less than ): Dry cough, dyspnea, interstitial pulmonary infiltration
Frequency not reported: Depression
It is possible that some side effects of Viramune may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Black, tarry stools
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
chills
clay-colored stools
cough
dark urine
diarrhea
fever
general tiredness and weakness
itching
joint or muscle pain
light-colored stools
lower back or side pain
nausea and vomiting
painful or difficult urination
pale skin
red, irritated eyes
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
shortness of breath
skin rash
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
yellow eyes and skin
Decreased appetite
hives
loss of appetite
swelling of the feet or lower legs
Abdominal or stomach pain
pain, numbness, or tingling of the hands, arms, legs, or feet
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
tingling, burning, or prickly sensations
Chest pain
cough
decrease in weight
dizziness or lightheadedness
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
headache
pain in the ankles or knees
painful, red lumps under the skin, mostly on the legs
sensation of spinning
trouble sleeping
Difficulty with moving
muscle pain or stiffness
pain in the joints