Common side effects of Viread include: abdominal pain, depression, nausea, vomiting, and vesicobullous reaction.
Other side effects include: pneumonia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, tenofovir (the active ingredient contained in Viread) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking tenofovir, check with your doctor immediately:
Some tenofovir side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
During controlled clinical trials, the most common side effects reported with tenofovir (the active ingredient contained in Viread) disoproxil fumarate (DF) in HIV-1-infected patients included rash, diarrhea, headache, pain, depression, asthenia, and nausea.
The most common side effects associated with this drug in combination with other antiretrovirals have included mild to moderate gastrointestinal events (e.
g.
, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, and flatulence) in therapy-experienced patients and mild to moderate gastrointestinal events and dizziness in therapy-naive patients.
About 1% of patients in clinical trials discontinued therapy due to gastrointestinal side effects.
During controlled clinical trials, the most common side effects reported with tenofovir DF in patients with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection and compensated liver disease included nausea, abdominal pain, diarrhea, headache, dizziness, fatigue, nasopharyngitis, back pain, and skin rash.
In patients with chronic HBV and decompensated liver disease, the most common side effects reported during a controlled trial included abdominal pain, nausea, insomnia, pruritus, vomiting, dizziness, and pyrexia.
Abdominal pain (any severity: 22%), nausea (any severity: 20%), and vomiting (any severity: 13%) have been in patients with chronic HBV and decompensated liver disease (n=45).
Pancreatitis, abdominal pain, and elevated amylase have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Very common (10% or more): Abdominal pain (up to 22%), nausea (up to 20%), diarrhea (up to 16%), vomiting (up to 13%)Common (1% to 10%): Elevated serum amylase, flatulence, dyspepsia, abdominal distension, upper abdominal painUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Pancreatitis, elevated serum lipase
Serum phosphorus less than 2 mg/dL was reported in a patient with chronic HBV and decompensated liver disease.
Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis (including fatal cases) have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs.
Hypokalemia and hypophosphatemia may occur as a result of proximal renal tubulopathy.
Lactic acidosis, hypokalemia, and hypophosphatemia have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Very common (10% or more): Elevated fasting cholesterol (up to 22%), elevated triglycerides (up to 11%), hypophosphatemiaCommon (1% to 10%): Elevated fasting triglycerides, anorexia, elevated serum glucose/hyperglycemia, elevated alkaline phosphataseUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): HypokalemiaRare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): Lactic acidosisFrequency not reported: Serum phosphorus less than 2 mg/dL, higher 1,25 vitamin D levelsAntiretroviral therapy:-Frequency not reported: Redistribution/accumulation of body fat (including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement, peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, "cushingoid appearance"), increased blood lipid levels, increased glucose levels
Very common (10% or more): Rash event (including rash, pruritus, maculopapular rash, urticaria, vesiculobullous rash, pustular rash, exfoliative rash, generalized rash, macular rash, pruritic rash, vesicular rash; up to 18%), pruritus (up to 16%)Common (1% to 10%): SweatingUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): LipodystrophyRare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): AngioedemaFrequency not reported: Lichenoid drug eruption with eosinophilia
Pruritus (any severity: 16%) has been reported in patients with chronic HBV and decompensated liver disease (n=45).
Rash has also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Insomnia (any severity: 18%) was reported in patients with chronic HBV and decompensated liver disease (n=45).
Very common (10% or more): Insomnia (up to 18%), depression (up to 11%)Common (1% to 10%): Anxiety, abnormal dreams
Very common (10% or more): Headache (up to 14%), dizziness (up to 13%)Common (1% to 10%): Peripheral neuropathy (including peripheral neuritis and neuropathy)Frequency not reported: Somnolence, paresthesia
Dizziness (any severity: 13%) was reported in patients with chronic HBV and decompensated liver disease (n=45).
Pyrexia (any severity: 11%) was reported in patients with chronic HBV and decompensated liver disease (n=45).
Asthenia has also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Very common (10% or more): Pain (up to 13%), pyrexia/fever (up to 11%), asthenia (up to 11%)Common (1% to 10%): Fatigue, weight loss, chest pain, procedural painAntiretroviral therapy:-Frequency not reported: Increased weight
Very common (10% or more): Elevated creatine kinase (up to 12%)Common (1% to 10%): Arthralgia, myalgia, back painUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Rhabdomyolysis, muscular weaknessRare (less than 0.
1%): MyopathyFrequency not reported: Decreased bone mineral density, increased biochemical markers of bone metabolism (serum bone-specific alkaline phosphatase, serum osteocalcin, serum C telopeptide, urinary N telopeptide), clinically relevant fractures (excluding fingers and toes), bone abnormalities (infrequently contributing to fractures), osteonecrosisPostmarketing reports: Osteomalacia (manifested as bone pain and which may contribute to fractures)
Rhabdomyolysis, osteomalacia, muscular weakness, and myopathy may occur as a result of proximal renal tubulopathy.
Rhabdomyolysis, muscular weakness, and myopathy have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Death due to progression of liver disease has been reported in 4% of patients with chronic HBV and decompensated liver disease (n=45).
On-treatment ALT or hepatic flares have been reported in patients with chronic HBV.
In general, ALT flares occurred within the first 4 to 8 weeks of therapy, accompanied by decreases in HBV-DNA levels, and resolved within 4 to 8 weeks without changes to therapy.
Severe acute exacerbations of hepatitis have been reported in patients with hepatitis B after discontinuation of this drug.
Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis (including fatal cases) have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs.
Hepatic steatosis and hepatitis have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Common (1% to 10%): Elevated transaminases, elevated ALT, elevated AST, death due to progression of liver diseaseRare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): Hepatic steatosis, hepatitisFrequency not reported: On-treatment ALT or hepatic flares, lactic acidosis/severe hepatomegaly with steatosis (including fatal cases), severe acute exacerbations of hepatitisPostmarketing reports: Elevated liver enzymes (primarily AST, ALT, gamma glutamyltransferase)
A confirmed increase in serum creatinine of 0.
5 mg/dL was reported in 9% of patients with chronic HBV and decompensated liver disease (n=45); however, since tenofovir (the active ingredient contained in Viread) and decompensated liver disease may have an impact on renal function, the contribution of tenofovir to renal impairment in these patients is difficult to ascertain.
Proximal renal tubulopathy generally resolved or improved after this drug was stopped; however, decreased CrCl did not completely resolve in some patients after stopping tenofovir DF.
Rhabdomyolysis, osteomalacia, bone abnormalities (infrequently contributing to fractures), hypokalemia, muscular weakness, myopathy, and hypophosphatemia may occur as a result of proximal renal tubulopathy.
Renal failure, acute renal failure, Fanconi syndrome, proximal renal tubulopathy, increased creatinine, nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, and acute tubular necrosis have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Common (1% to 10%): Increased creatinineUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Proximal renal tubulopathy (including Fanconi syndrome)Rare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): Acute renal failure, renal failure, acute tubular necrosis, nephrogenic diabetes insipidusFrequency not reported: New onset or worsening renal impairment, nephritis, decreased CrClPostmarketing reports: Renal insufficiency, interstitial nephritis (including acute cases)
Common (1% to 10%): Sinusitis, upper respiratory tract infections, nasopharyngitis, pneumonia, pharyngolaryngeal painFrequency not reported: Nasal congestionPostmarketing reports: Dyspnea
Common (1% to 10%): Decreased neutrophils
Common (1% to 10%): Hematuria, glycosuriaFrequency not reported: Decreased urine volumePostmarketing reports: Proteinuria, polyuria
Postmarketing reports: Allergic reaction (including angioedema)
Frequency not reported: Higher serum parathyroid hormone levels
Frequency not reported: Immune reconstitution syndrome, autoimmune disorders in the setting of immune reconstitution (e.
g.
, Graves' disease, polymyositis, Guillain-Barre syndrome)
It is possible that some side effects of Viread may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Chest pain
cough
fever or chills
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing
Abdominal or stomach discomfort
decreased appetite
diarrhea
fast, shallow breathing
general feeling of discomfort
muscle pain or cramping
unusual tiredness or weakness
Agitation
bone pain
changes in urination
confusion
convulsions or seizures
depression
fast heartbeat
increased blood pressure
increased thirst
muscle twitching
pains in the stomach, side, or abdomen, possibly radiating to the back
stupor
swelling of the face, fingers, or lower legs
vomiting
weight gain
yellow eyes or skin
Back pain
lack or loss of strength
pain
redness of the skin
skin rash, itching skin, hives or welts
Burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
heartburn or indigestion
joint pain or swelling
muscle pains or stiffness
passing of gas
redistribution or accumulation of body fat
weight loss