As well as its needed effects, phytonadione (the active ingredient contained in Vitamin K) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking phytonadione, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some phytonadione side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Injection site reactions (inflammation, atrophy, necrosis)Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Venous irritation or phlebitis (IV route)Frequency not reported: Pain, swelling, and tenderness at the injection site
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Rapid and weak pulse, brief hypotension, cyanosisVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Facial flushing
Very rare (less than 0.
01%): Anaphylactoid reactions (IV route)Frequency not reported: Allergic sensitivity, anaphylaxis
Fatalities and other severe reactions have occurred during or immediately after the parenteral administration of phytonadione.
The majority of these reactions have occurred with intravenous administration.
These reactions resemble hypersensitivity or anaphylaxis and include shock and cardiac or respiratory arrest.
Feelings of uneasiness, flushing, diaphoresis, chest pain, tachycardia, cyanosis, weakness, and dyspnea may precede the cardiopulmonary event.
These severe reactions are more likely with, but are not limited to, rapid infusions of undiluted drug.
Gastrointestinal side effects have rarely included 'peculiar' sensations of taste.
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Dyspnea
Frequency not reported: Death (IV and IM routes)
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Erythematous, indurated, pruritic plaquesRare (less than 0.
1%): Profuse sweating, scleroderma-like lesions, Very rare (less than 0.
01%): SweatingFrequency not reported: Erythema perstans-like lesions
Rare (less than 0.
1%): DizzinessVery rare (less than 0.
01%): Unusual taste
Hyperbilirubinemia occurred primarily with doses above those recommended.
Rare (less than 0.
1%): Hyperbilirubinemia in newbornsFrequency not reported: Jaundice in newborns
Frequency not reported: Hemolysis in newborns
The most common adverse events were dermatologic and injection site reactions.
It is possible that some side effects of Vitamin K may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Decreased appetite
decreased movement or activity
difficulty in breathing
enlarged liver
general body swelling
irritability
muscle stiffness
paleness
yellow eyes or skin
Difficulty in swallowing
fast or irregular breathing
lightheadedness or fainting
shortness of breath
skin rash, hives and/or itching
swelling of eyelids, face, or lips
tightness in chest
troubled breathing and/or wheezing
Blue color or flushing or redness of skin
dizziness
fast and/or weak heartbeat
increased sweating
low blood pressure (temporary)
Flushing of face
redness, pain, or swelling at place of injection
skin lesions at place of injection (rare)
unusual taste