As well as its needed effects, elvitegravir (the active ingredient contained in Vitekta) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some elvitegravir side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Very common ( or more): Increased lipase , diarrhea (up to )Common ( to ): Abdominal pain, vomiting, nausea, increased serum amylaseUncommon ( to ): Dyspepsia, abdominal distension, flatulence
Increased serum amylase (greater than  times the upper limit of normal [ x ULN]) has been reported in  of patients.
If serum amylase was greater than  x ULN, lipase was also measured.
Increased lipase (grades  to ) has been reported in  of patients.
Increased total bilirubin (greater than  x ULN), GGT (greater than  x ULN), ALT (greater than  x ULN), and AST (greater than  x ULN) have been reported in , , , and  of patients, respectively.
Common ( to ): Increased total bilirubin, increased ALT, increased AST
Increased creatine kinase (at least  x ULN) has been reported in  of patients.
Common ( to ): Increased creatine kinase, back pain, arthralgia, pain in extremityFrequency not reported: Osteonecrosis
Hematuria (greater than  RBC/high power field) and urine glucose (+) have been reported in  and  of patients, respectively.
Common ( to ): Hematuria, urine glucose
Increased total cholesterol (greater than  mg/dL), increased total triglycerides (greater than  mg/dL), and hyperglycemia (greater than  mg/dL) have each been reported in  of patients.
Common ( to ): Increased total cholesterol, increased total triglycerides, hyperglycemia
Common ( to ): HeadacheUncommon ( to ): Dizziness, paresthesia, somnolence, dysgeusia
Common ( to ): Decreased neutrophils
Decreased neutrophils (less than /mm) has been reported in  of patients.
Suicidal ideation and suicide attempt were reported in patients with history of depression or psychiatric illness.
Common ( to ): DepressionUncommon ( to ): Suicidal ideation, suicide attempt, insomnia
Common ( to ): Rash
Common ( to ): Fatigue
Frequency not reported: Autoimmune disorders (, Graves' disease)
It is possible that some side effects of Vitekta may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Diarrhea
Headache
nausea
Discouragement
feeling sad or empty
heartburn
indigestion
irritability
lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
rash
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
thoughts or attempts at killing oneself
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting