As well as its needed effects, fomivirsen ophthalmic (the active ingredient contained in Vitravene) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking fomivirsen ophthalmic, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some fomivirsen ophthalmic side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Most adverse effects associated with fomivirsen therapy are limited to the treated eye.
However, some of these events ( retinal detachment) will also occur with the natural progression of CMV retinitis and may not necessarily be direct complications of drug administration.
The most frequently observed adverse effect is ocular inflammation, including iritis and vitritis.
Inflammatory reactions occur in approximately  of patients and are more common during induction dosing.
Other frequently reported ocular effects (occurring in  to  of patients) include abnormal vision, anterior chamber inflammation, blurred vision, cataract, conjunctival hemorrhage, decreased visual acuity, desaturation of color vision, eye pain, floaters, increased intraocular pressure, photophobia, retinal detachment, retinal edema, retinal hemorrhage, and retinal pigment changes.
Less commonly ( to ), conjunctival hyperemia, conjunctivitis, corneal edema, decreased peripheral vision, hypotony, keratic precipitates, optic neuritis, photopsia, retinal vascular disease, visual field defect, vitreous hemorrhage, and vitreous opacity have been reported.
It is possible that some side effects of Vitravene may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abnormal vision
blurred vision
change in how colors look
decreased vision or other changes in vision
eye pain
redness of eye
seeing flashes or sparks of light
seeing floating spots before eyes
sensitivity of eye to light
veil or curtain appearing across part of vision
watering of eye
Decreased ability to see to the side when looking straight ahead 
itching, redness, or soreness at place of injection 
pain on moving the eye
soreness of eye
swelling of the eye
Abdominal or stomach pain
diarrhea 
headache
nausea
skin rash
vomiting
weakness
Back pain
cough
dizziness
loss of appetite
sweating
tightness in chest
weight loss