As well as its needed effects, hyaluronidase (the active ingredient contained in Vitrase) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking hyaluronidase, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking hyaluronidase, get emergency help immediately:
Some hyaluronidase side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Local reactions are the most common side effects.
The most common side effect during hypodermoclysis is edema.
Hyaluronidase (the active ingredient contained in Vitrase) increases the side effects of coadministered drugs.
Hypersensitivity reactions have included urticaria and angioedema in less than 0.
1% of patients.
Anaphylactic-like reactions have rarely been reported after intravenous or retrobulbar injection.
One clinic has reported a possible increase in cases of angioedema related to the use of pharmacy-compounded hyaluronidase in cataract surgery as opposed to that seen with the use of manufactured products.
Ocular side effects have included case reports of hypersensitivity reactions after retrobulbar injections, which manifested as increased intraorbital pressure and swelling, periorbital edema, and localized pruritus.
It is possible that some side effects of Vitrase may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Cough
difficulty swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
hives or welts
itching
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
redness of the skin
skin rash
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
Blurred vision
chills
confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
nausea or vomiting
redness of the skin
sweating
swelling
unusual tiredness or weakness
unusually warm skin
Bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site