As well as its needed effects, guanabenz (the active ingredient contained in Wytensin) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking guanabenz, check with your doctor or nurse as soon as possible:
Some guanabenz side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
After you stop taking this drug, it is possible that you may still experience side effects that need medical attention.
If you notice any of the following side effects check with your doctor immediately:
In comparative studies the overall incidence of side effects associated with guanabenz (the active ingredient contained in Wytensin) was as high or higher than that seen with methyldopa or clonidine, but particularly troublesome effects, such as sodium retention, mental depression or sexual dysfunction, which have been associated with these drugs, have not been associated with guanabenz.
The most common side effects involve the nervous system.
Drowsiness is a complaint in up to  of patients, and, with dry mouth, is the main reason some patients discontinue therapy.
Weakness or dizziness each occur in  and headache in  in patients.
Gastrointestinal side effects include dry mouth in up to , constipation in , and nausea in  of patients.
Postural hypotension may not have been observed, at least during initial therapy with guanabenz (the active ingredient contained in Wytensin)  due to peripheral vascular resistance and cardiac output remaining unchanged.
Although usually asymptomatic, guanabenz can decrease heart rate.
Other cardiovascular side effects are rare.
Unlike some other alpha--adrenoreceptor agonists, guanabenz is only rarely associated with orthostatic hypotension.
Rebound hypertension can be a significant problem that may be accompanied by nervousness, palpitations, diaphoresis, anxiety, insomnia, malaise, and abdominal cramps.
It has been observed anywhere from  to  hours after discontinuation of therapy.
Nasal congestion has been reported in less than  of patients.
Dermatologic rashes have been reported in less than  of patients.
Ocular side effects are limited to rare cases of blurry vision.
There are no serious endocrinologic side effects associated with guanabenz (the active ingredient contained in Wytensin)   The drug does not appear to adversely affect the lipid profile.
Some data indicate significant decreases in total and LDL cholesterol levels during guanabenz therapy.
There are no known clinically significant renal side effects from guanabenz (the active ingredient contained in Wytensin)   Acutely (within the first day of therapy), guanabenz may cause a mild water diuresis.
Unlike some alpha--adrenoreceptor agonists, guanabenz is not associated with sodium and water retention.
Some data have shown significant increases in glomerular filtration rate, natriuresis, and free water clearance associated with the use of guanabenz during the first few hours of therapy.
Use of guanabenz for one week or more, however, has not been associated with significant changes in renal function parameters.
It is possible that some side effects of Wytensin may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Dizziness (severe)
irritability
nervousness
pinpoint pupils
slow heartbeat
unusual tiredness or weakness
Dizziness
drowsiness
dryness of mouth
weakness
Decreased sexual ability
headache
nausea
Anxiety or tenseness
chest pain
fast or irregular heartbeat
headache 
increased salivation
increase in sweating
nausea or vomiting
nervousness or restlessness
shaking or trembling of hands or fingers
stomach cramps 
trouble in sleeping