More frequent side effects include: lower leg pain.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, omalizumab (the active ingredient contained in Xolair) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some omalizumab side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The more commonly reported side effects included injection site reactions, headache, and nasopharyngitis.
In clinical trials, any injection site reaction occurred in  and  of patients given this drug and placebo, respectively; severe reactions occurred in  and , respectively.
Very common ( or more): Any injection site reaction, including pain, swelling, itching, redness, bruising, bleeding, induration, or mass (up to ), severe injection site reaction (up to )Uncommon ( to ): Arm swelling
Very common ( or more): Viral infection (up to )Uncommon ( to ): Moniliasis, parasitic infectionRare ( to ): Anti-omalizumab (the active ingredient contained in Xolair) antibody developmentPostmarketing reports: Serum sickness, allergic granulomatous angiitis (Churg-Strauss syndrome), lymphadenopathy
In clinical studies, viral infection occurred in  and  or patients given this drug or placebo, respectively.
Increased parasitic infections, compared to placebo, were not statistically significant.
Very common ( or more): Headache (up to )Common ( to ): DizzinessUncommon ( to ): Syncope, vasovagal syncope, somnolence, paresthesiaFrequency not reported: Migraine, sinus headache
In clinical trials, headache occurred in  of patients given either this drug (n=) or placebo (n=); headache occurred very commonly in patients  to  years old.
Very common ( or more): Back pain (up to )Common ( to ): Arthralgia, myalgia, sprains, strains, extremity pain, fracturePostmarketing reports: Joint swelling
In clinical trials with chronic idiopathic urticarial, patients reported nasopharyngitis , , and  in  mg,  mg, and placebo, respectively; sinusitis (, , ), cough (, ,), and upper respiratory infection (, , ) were also reported by patients, respectively.
Common ( to ): Nasopharyngitis, sinusitis, viral upper respiratory infection (URI), URIUncommon ( to ): Pharyngitis, cough, allergic bronchospasmRare ( to ): LaryngoedemaFrequency not reported: Asthma, oropharyngeal pain
Common ( to ): Dermatitis, pruritusUncommon ( to ): Skin rashes, flushing, photosensitivityPostmarketing reports: Alopecia, hair loss
Common ( to ): Fever, earacheUncommon ( to ): Fatigue, post-injection phenomena
In clinical trials, fever occurred very commonly in patients  to  years old.
In clinical trials, upper abdominal pain was very common in patients  to  years old.
In clinical trials with chronic idiopathic urticarial, patients reported nausea , , and  of the time with  mg,  mg, and placebo, respectively.
Common ( to ): Upper abdominal pain, nauseaUncommon ( to ): Diarrhea, dyspepsia, gastroenteritisFrequency not reported: Toothache
Common ( to ): Urinary tract infection
Uncommon ( to ): UrticariaRare ( to ): Anaphylactic reactions, angioedemaPostmarketing reports: Anaphylactoid reactions
Uncommon ( to ): Postural hypotensionFrequency not reported: Peripheral edema, arterial thrombotic events (including transient ischemic attack, myocardial infarction, unstable angina, and cardiovascular death)Postmarketing reports: Hypotension, chest tightness
Uncommon ( to ): Asymptomatic platelet decreasesPostmarketing reports: Idiopathic severe thrombocytopenia, eosinophilic conditions
In clinical trials,  of patients developed decreased platelet counts below the normal laboratory range; these patients did not have associated bleeding episodes or decreased hemoglobin.
Uncommon ( to ): Weight increases
Frequency not reported: Anxiety
It is possible that some side effects of Xolair may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Cough
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness
fast heartbeat
hives, itching, or skin rash
malignant tumor
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
tightness in the chest
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bleeding
blistering
body aches or pain
burning
chills
cold or flu-like symptoms
coldness
congestion
discoloration of the skin
dryness or soreness of the throat
feeling of pressure
fever
headache
hoarseness
itching
leg pain
lumps
muscle or joint pain
numbness
pain
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
redness
runny nose
scarring
sore throat
soreness
stinging
stuffy or runny nose
swelling
tender, swollen glands in the neck
tenderness
tingling
ulceration
voice changes
warmth
Arm pain
blistering, crusting, irritation, itching, or reddening of the skin
body produces substance that can bind to drug making it less effective or cause side effects
cracked, dry, or scaly skin
earache
itching skin