Common side effects of Xtandi include: upper respiratory tract infection, headache, hot flash, laryngitis, nasopharyngitis, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis.
Other side effects include: lower respiratory tract infection, pneumonia, pulmonary infection, altered mental status, amnesia, bronchitis, cognitive dysfunction, falling, hypertension, hypoesthesia, and memory impairment.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, enzalutamide (the active ingredient contained in Xtandi) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some enzalutamide side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Very common ( or more): Headache (up to ), dizziness/vertigo (up to )Common ( to ): Spinal cord compression and cauda equina syndrome, paresthesia, mental impairment disorders, hypoesthesia, dysgeusia, restless legs syndromeUncommon ( to ): SeizuresPostmarketing reports: Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome
It is unknown how the drug may lower the seizure threshold; however, it may be related to the drug's ability to inhibit the activity of the GABA-gated chloride channel.
The risk of seizure may be related to dose.
Mental impairment disorders included amnesia, memory impairment, cognitive disorder, and disturbance in attention.
Very common ( or more): Hot flush (up to ), peripheral edema (up to ), hypertension (up to )
Common ( to ): Pruritus, dry skin
Common ( to ): Gynecomastia
Very common ( or more): Constipation (up to ), diarrhea (up to )
Common ( to ): Hematuria, pollakiuria
Very common ( or more): Neutropenia Common ( to ): ThrombocytopeniaFrequency not reported: Leukopenia
Very common ( or more): ALT elevations Common ( to ): Bilirubin elevations
Very common ( or more): Decreased appetite (up to ), decreased weight (up to )
Very common ( or more): Back pain (up to ), arthralgia (up to ), musculoskeletal pain (up to )Common ( to ): Muscular weakness, musculoskeletal stiffness
Fall-related injuries included non-pathologic fractures, joint injuries, and hematomas.
Very common ( or more): Asthenia/fatigue (up to ), falls (up to )Common ( to ): Fall-related injuries
Common ( to ): Insomnia, anxiety, hallucinations
Upper respiratory tract infection included nasopharyngitis, sinusitis, rhinitis, pharyngitis, and laryngitis.
Lower respiratory tract and lung infection included pneumonia and bronchitis.
Very common ( or more): Upper respiratory tract infection (up to ), dyspnea (up to )Common ( to ): Lower respiratory tract and lung infection, epistaxis
It is possible that some side effects of Xtandi may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Back pain
bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
blood in the urine
blurred vision
chest pain
cough with mucus
difficulty with breathing
dizziness
fever or chills
loss of bladder or bowel control
nervousness
painful or difficult urination
pounding in the ears
slow or fast heartbeat
sore throat
tingling of the hands or feet
unable to move the legs
unusual weight gain or loss
Anxiety
confusion or excitement
depression
fainting
falling
lightheadedness
loss of memory
memory or attention span problems
nightmares or vivid dreams
rapid, shallow breathing
Seizures
Body aches or pain
bone pain
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
diarrhea
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
difficulty with moving
dry throat
ear congestion
feeling of constant movement of self or surroundings
feeling of warmth
hoarseness
joint pain
lack or loss of strength
loss of voice
muscle pain, stiffness, or weakness
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
redness of the face, neck, arms, and upper chest
sensation of spinning
stuffy or runny nose
tender, swollen glands in the neck
trouble sleeping
trouble with swallowing
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bloody nose
dry skin
frequent urination
itching skin
pale-colored urine