As well as its needed effects, ethinyl estradiol / norelgestromin may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some ethinyl estradiol / norelgestromin side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Gastrointestinal side effects reported by  to  of women in clinical trials (n=) have included nausea, and abdominal pain.
Nausea and vomiting led to therapy discontinuation in  to  of women.
Side effects reported in connection with the use of combination hormonal contraceptives in general have included gastrointestinal cramps and bloating, nausea, and vomiting.
Respiratory side effects reported by  to  of women in clinical trials (n=) have included upper respiratory infection.
Local side effects reported by  to  of women in clinical trials (n=) have included application site reaction.
This side effect led to therapy discontinuation in  to  of women.
Nervous system side effects reported by  to  of women in clinical trials (n=) have included headache.
Emotional lability and headache led to therapy discontinuation in  to  of women.
Side effects reported in connection with the use of combination hormonal contraceptives in general have included migraine headaches.
Psychiatric side effects reported in connection with the use of combination hormonal contraceptives in general have included mental depression.
Genitourinary side effects reported by  to  of women in clinical trials (n=) have included menstrual cramps.
Side effects reported in connection with the use of combination hormonal contraceptives in general have included change in menstrual flow, spotting, breakthrough bleeding, amenorrhea, temporary infertility after discontinuation of treatment, change in cervical erosion and secretion, and vaginal candidiasis.
General side effects reported by  to  of women in clinical trials (n=) have included breast symptoms.
Breast symptoms led to therapy discontinuation in  to  of women.
Side effects reported in connection with the use of combination hormonal contraceptives in general have included diminution in lactation when given immediately postpartum, and breast changes, such as tenderness, enlargement, and secretion.
Metabolic side effects reported in connection with the use of combination hormonal contraceptives in general have included edema, changes in weight, and reduced tolerance to carbohydrates.
Dermatologic side effects reported in connection with the use of combination hormonal contraceptives in general have included persistent melasma.
Ocular side effects reported in connection with the use of combination hormonal contraceptives in general have included intolerance to contact lenses and changes in corneal curvature.
Hepatic side effects reported in connection with the use of combination hormonal contraceptives in general have included cholestatic jaundice.
Hypersensitivity side effects reported in connection with the use of combination hormonal contraceptives in general have included rash (allergic).
It is possible that some side effects of Xulane may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Body aches or pain
chills
cough
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
fever
headache
loss of voice
nasal congestion
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness
Anxiety
changes in skin color
chest pain or discomfort
confusion
dark urine
diarrhea
dizziness
eye pain
fainting
inability to speak
itching
lack or loss of appetite
light-colored stools
lightheadedness
nausea
numbness in the hands
pain in the abdomen or stomach
pain in the chest, groin, or legs, especially the calves
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
pain, tenderness, or swelling of the foot or leg
pounding in the ears
rash
seizures
slow or fast heartbeat
slurred speech
sudden headache
sudden loss of coordination
sudden, severe weakness or numbness in the arm or leg on one side of the body
sudden, unexplained shortness of breath
sweating
swelling, pain, or tenderness in the upper abdominal or stomach area
temporary blindness
unpleasant breath odor
vision changes
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin
Unusual vaginal bleeding in women
vomiting
Burning, itching, or redness of the skin
menstrual cramps
pain, soreness, swelling, or discharge from the breast or breasts
swelling or soreness at the patch site
Abdominal or stomach cramps or bloating
absent, missed, or irregular menstrual periods
bloody vaginal discharge
brown, blotchy spots on exposed skin
change in amount of vaginal discharge
change in menstrual flow
decreased amount of breast milk
discouragement
dry mouth
feeling sad or empty
increase or decrease in weight
increased hunger or thirst
increased urination
irritability
itching of the vagina or outside of the genitals
light vaginal bleeding between periods and after sexual intercourse
loss of interest or pleasure
pain during sexual intercourse
stopping of menstrual bleeding
swelling
thick, white curd-like vaginal discharge without odor or with mild odor
trouble concentrating
trouble sleeping