Get emergency medical help if you have signs of an allergic reaction:  hives; difficult breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
Call your doctor at once if you have:
severe nausea and vomiting;
shortness of breath (even with mild exertion);
swelling in your feet or ankles, rapid weight gain;
signs of pancreatitis--severe pain in your upper stomach spreading to your back, nausea and vomiting, fast heart rate;
kidney problems--little or no urination, painful or difficult urination; or
low potassium--leg cramps, constipation, irregular heartbeats, fluttering in your chest, increased thirst or urination, numbness or tingling, muscle weakness or limp feeling.
Common side effects may include:
nausea, diarrhea;
headache; or
cold symptoms such as stuffy or runny nose, sneezing, sore throat.
This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.
Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects.
The most frequently reported adverse reactions included hypoglycemia and gastrointestinal adverse reactions, such as nausea diarrhea, vomiting, constipation, dyspepsia, gastritis, abdominal pain, flatulence, gastroesophageal reflux disease, and abdominal distention.
Common ( to ): Nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, constipation, dyspepsia, gastritis, abdominal pain, flatulence, gastroesophageal reflux disease, abdominal distension, decreased appetite, increased lipaseUncommon ( to ): Pancreatitis, including necrotizing pancreatitis
Gastrointestinal adverse events occur more frequently at the beginning of therapy and generally diminish within a few days or weeks of continued use.
Nausea was transient for most patients.
Weight gain may occur and has been attributed to the anabolic effects of insulin.
After  weeks of insulin degludec / liraglutide /, a mean increase of  kg occurred.
Very common ( or more): HypoglycemiaCommon ( to ): Decreased appetiteUncommon ( to ): DehydrationFrequency not reported: Weight gain
Liraglutide: Frequency not reported: Increased blood calcitonin, goitre
Uncommon ( to ): Urticaria, rash, pruritus, face swellingRare (less than ): Hypersensitivity manifested with swelling of tongue and lips, diarrhea, nausea, tiredness, and itching Postmarketing reports: Anaphylactic reaction
Hypersensitivity reactions including urticaria, pruritus, and/or swelling of the face have been reported following administration of this drug.
Few case of anaphylactic reaction with additional symptoms such as hypotension, palpitations, dyspnea, and edema has been reported postmarketing.
Injection site reactions included injection site hematoma, pain, hemorrhage, erythema, nodules, swelling, discolorations, pruritus, warmth, and injection site mass.
These reactions are generally mild and transient, disappearing with continued treatment.
Lipodystrophy may occur at the injection site.
Rotation of injection site may help reduce the risk of developing these reactions.
Common ( to ): Injection site reactionFrequency not reported: Lipodystrophy
Mean increase in heart rate of  to  beats per minute has been observed; long-term clinical effects are unknown.
Uncommon ( to ): Increased heart rateFrequency not reported: Peripheral edema
Uncommon ( to ): Rash, pruritus, urticaria
Rare (less than ): Antibody formation
Temporary worsening of diabetic retinopathy may occur with abrupt improvement in glycemic control; however, long-term improvement may decrease the risk of progression.
Insulin:Frequency not reported: Temporary worsening of diabetic retinopathy, transitory reversible ophthalmologic refraction disorder
Pooled analysis of liraglutide clinical trials reveals the incidence rate for malignant neoplasms at , , and  per  patient-years for liraglutide, placebo, and active comparator treated patients, respectively.
Incidence rates were based on investigator-reported events, medical history, pathology reports, and surgical reports from both blinded and open-label studies.
Seven cases of papillary thyroid carcinoma were in liraglutide-treated patients and  case in a comparator-treated patient.
Most were less than  cm in greatest diameter and diagnosed in surgical pathology specimens after thyroidectomy prompted by findings on protocol-specified screening with serum calcitonin or thyroid ultrasound.
Seven malignant neoplasm events were reported beyond -year exposure to study medication:  colon,  prostate and  nasopharyngeal in liraglutide-treated patients with  (colon) reported in a comparator-treated patient.
Liraglutide: Frequency not reported: Thyroid neoplasm, malignant neoplasms Postmarketing: Medullary thyroid carcinoma
Liraglutide Frequency not reported: Renal impairment, acute renal failure
Liraglutide: Common ( to ): Elevated serum bilirubin, cholelithiasisUncommon ( to ): Cholecystitis Postmarketing: Cholestasis, hepatitis, elevated liver enzymes
Cholelithiasis and cholecystitis have been reported in liraglutide trials.
In doses of up to  mg, cholelithiasis and cholecystitis were reported in  (vs ) and  (vs ), respectively (compared to placebo).
The majority of patients with cholelithiasis and cholecystitis require cholecystectomy.
Common ( to ): HeadacheFrequency not reported: Acute painful peripheral neuropathy
Acute painful peripheral neuropathy may occur with abrupt improvement in glycemic control; however, long-term improvement may decrease the risk of progression.
Common ( to ): Nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory infection
It is possible that some side effects of Xultophy may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
severe nausea and vomiting;
shortness of breath (even with mild exertion);
swelling in your feet or ankles, rapid weight gain;
signs of pancreatitis--severe pain in your upper stomach spreading to your back, nausea and vomiting, fast heart rate;
kidney problems--little or no urination, painful or difficult urination; or
low potassium--leg cramps, constipation, irregular heartbeats, fluttering in your chest, increased thirst or urination, numbness or tingling, muscle weakness or limp feeling.
nausea, diarrhea;
headache; or
cold symptoms such as stuffy or runny nose, sneezing, sore throat.