As well as its needed effects, zafirlukast may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
Some zafirlukast side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most commons adverse effects may be associated with headache or gastrointestinal disturbances.
These symptoms are usually mild.
Very common ( or more): Headache (up to )Common ( to ): Dizziness Frequency not reported: Neuropathy, neuropsychiatric events
Common ( to ): Nausea (up to ), diarrhea (up to ), abdominal pain (up to ), vomiting (up to ), dyspepsia 
In most of the postmarketing reports, the patient's symptoms abated and the liver enzymes returned to normal or near normal after stopping this drug.
Common ( to ): SGPT elevation , AST Rare (less than ): Hyperbilirubinemia without other elevated liver function tests; fulminant hepatitis or progressed to hepatic failure, liver transplantation and deathPostmarketing reports: Symptomatic hepatitis (with or without hyperbilirubinemia) without other attributable cause; hepatic dysfunction
Common ( to ): Myalgia , back pain Frequency not reported: Arthralgia
Common ( to ): Generalized pain , asthenia (up to ), accidental injury , fever Rare (less than ): Increased theophylline levels with or without clinical signs or symptoms of theophylline toxicity when this drug was added to an existing theophylline regime.
Frequency not reported: Edema, malaise
Common ( to ): Respiratory tract infection 
Infections were usually mild or moderate, predominantly affecting the respiratory tract and not necessitating withdrawal from the therapy.
In clinical trials, an increased proportion of patients over the age of  years reported these infections.
Infections occurred equally in both sexes and were associated with coadministration of inhaled corticosteroids.
Rare (less than ): Bleeding disorders including menorrhagia, thrombocytopenia
Rare (less than ): AlopeciaFrequency not reported: Bruising, pruritus
Rare ( to ): GranulomatosisVery rare (less than ): Agranulocytosis
Systemic eosinophilia may also involve various body systems including vasculitic rash, worsening pulmonary symptoms, cardiac complications or neuropathy.
Rare (less than ): Systemic eosinophilia, eosinophilic pneumonia, or clinical features of vasculitis consistent with Churg-Strauss syndrome
Frequency not reported: Urticaria, angioedema, rashes (with or without blistering)
Frequency not reported: Insomnia, depression
It is possible that some side effects of zafirlukast may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Cough or hoarseness
fever or chills
lower back or side pain
pain
painful or difficult urination
Abdominal or stomach pain
clay-colored stools
dark urine
diarrhea
dizziness
headache
itching
loss of appetite
nausea
rash
unpleasant breath odor
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting of blood
yellow eyes or skin
Attack, assault, or force
attempts at killing oneself
discouragement
dry mouth
fear or nervousness
feeling sad or empty
fever with or without chills
general feeling of tiredness or weakness
hyperventilation
irregular heartbeats
irritability
lack of appetite
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
loss of interest or pleasure
restlessness
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
shortness of breath
sleeplessness
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
tiredness
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
trouble with concentrating
trouble with sleeping
unable to sleep
unusual bleeding or bruising
Acid or sour stomach
back pain
belching
difficulty with moving
heartburn
indigestion
joint pain
lack or loss of strength
muscle aching or cramping
muscle pains or stiffness
stomach discomfort or upset
swollen joints
vomiting
Hives or welts
redness of the skin