As well as its needed effects, ziv-aflibercept (the active ingredient contained in Zaltrap) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking ziv-aflibercept, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some ziv-aflibercept side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Cardiovascular side effects have included hypertension , deep vein thrombosis , and angina pectoris.
Dermatologic side effects have included palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome , skin hyperpigmentation , compromised wound healing , and catheter site infection.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included diarrhea , stomatitis , abdominal pain , abdominal pain upper , hemorrhoids , rectal hemorrhage , proctalgia , gastrointestinal hemorrhage , fistulas formation , gastrointestinal perforation , and tooth infection.
General side effects have included fatigue  and asthenia .
Genitourinary side effects have included urinary tract infections  and hematuria .
Hematologic side effects have included leukopenia , neutropenia , and thrombocytopenia .
Hypersensitivity reactions have included severe hypersensitivity reactions .
Immunologic side effects have included the development of anti-product antibody .
Metabolic side effects have included decreased appetite , decreased weight , and dehydration .
Laboratory abnormalities have included increased AST  and increase ALT .
Nervous system side effects have included headache , reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome , transient ischemic attack, and cerebrovascular accident.
Other side effects have included post-procedural hemorrhage .
Renal side effects have included proteinuria , increased serum creatinine , and nephrotic syndrome .
Respiratory side effects have included epistaxis , dysphonia , dyspnea , oropharyngeal pain , rhinorrhea , pulmonary embolism , pulmonary hemorrhage, hemoptysis, nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, and pneumonia.
It is possible that some side effects of Zaltrap may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Anxiety
black, tarry stools
bladder pain
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
bloody nose
blurred vision
chest pain
confusion
cough or hoarseness
decreased urination
difficult, burning, or painful urination
dizziness or lightheadedness
dry mouth
excessive thirst
fainting
fever or chills
frequent urge to urinate
headache
hoarseness
lower back or side pain
nervousness
pain or swelling around the rectum
pale skin
pinpoint red spots on the skin
pounding in the ears
slow or fast heartbeat
sore throat
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
sudden shortness of breath or troubled breathing
sunken eyes
swollen glands
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
voice changes
wrinkled skin
Abdominal or stomach pain
decreased appetite
diarrhea
lack or loss of strength
redness, swelling, or pain of the skin
runny nose
scaling of the skin on the hands and feet
swelling or inflammation of the mouth
tingling of the hands and feet
ulceration of the skin