Common side effects of Zemaira include: exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor (the active ingredient contained in Zemaira) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor, check with your doctor or nurse immediately:
Some alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Respiratory side effects have included chest pain, pharyngitis, asthma, rhinitis, bronchitis, sinusitis, increased cough, upper and lower respiratory tract infections, dyspnea, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbation, nasopharyngitis, pharyngolaryngeal pain, COPD, sore throat, bronchospasm, lung disorder, infective exacerbation of COPD, bilateral pulmonary infiltrates, and diffuse interstitial lung disease.
Dyspnea has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Nervous system side effects have included dizziness, headache, somnolence, dysgeusia, lethargy, lightheadedness, paresthesia, and migraine.
Other side effects have included pain, back pain, viral infection, peripheral edema, chills, fever, chest pain, chest discomfort, influenza-like illness, pyrexia, delayed fever, influenza-like symptoms, allergic-like reactions, malaise, hot flush, asthenia, infection, and accidental injury.
Chest pain, chills, and influenza-like illness have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Cardiovascular side effects have included vasodilation, hypertension, tachycardia, hypotension, and transient increase in blood pressure.
Tachycardia, hypotension, and hypertension (including transient increases of blood pressure) have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Hematologic side effects have included decreased platelet count, transient leukocytosis, dilutional anemia, ecchymosis, and hemorrhage.
Dermatologic side effects have included pruritus, rash, erythema marginatum, and urticaria.
Rash has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included bloating, nausea, abdominal pain, diarrhea, and dyspepsia.
Hepatic side effects have included elevations (greater than 2 times the upper limit of normal) in aminotransferases (ALT or AST), increased hepatic enzyme (unspecified), and cholangitis.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included musculoskeletal discomfort, joint swelling, arthralgia, and myalgia.
Ocular side effects have included abnormal vision.
Local side effects have included injection site pain, injection site hemorrhage, and injection site reaction.
Genitourinary side effects have included urinary tract infection.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included hypersensitivity during postmarketing experience.
It is possible that some side effects of Zemaira may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
body aches or pain
chills
cough
difficult, burning, or painful urination
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
fever
frequent urge to urinate
headache
loss of voice
lower back or side pain
nasal congestion
runny nose
sneezing
sore throat
unusual tiredness or weakness
Bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
blurred vision
chest pain
cough producing mucus
diarrhea
difficult or labored breathing
dizziness
feeling faint, dizzy, or lightheadedness
flushing or redness of the skin, especially on the face and neck
general feeling of discomfort or illness
joint pain
loss of appetite
muscle aches and pains
nausea
nervousness
noisy breathing
pounding in the ears
rapid weight gain
shivering
slow or fast heartbeat
sweating
tightness in the chest
tingling of the hands or feet
trouble sleeping
unusual weight gain or loss
vomiting
Confusion
difficulty with swallowing
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
hives
itching, puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
skin rash
Feeling of warmth
itching skin
muscle or bone pain
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
redness of the face, neck, arms, and occasionally, upper chest
sudden sweating
Back pain
bloating
change in taste
changes in vision
fever
hives or welts
loss of taste
pain
redness of the skin
sleepiness or unusual drowsiness
swelling of the joints
unusual drowsiness, dullness, tiredness, weakness, or feeling of sluggishness