As well as its needed effects, elbasvir / grazoprevir may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking elbasvir / grazoprevir, check with your doctor immediately:
Some elbasvir / grazoprevir side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
In clinical trials, the safety of this drug (with or without ribavirin) was assessed in patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection with compensated liver disease (with or without cirrhosis).
Clinical trials included therapy-naive and therapy-experienced (peginterferon alfa/ribavirin-experienced, peginterferon alfa/ribavirin/HCV protease inhibitor-experienced) patients, with and without HCV/HIV-coinfection; at least  clinical trial included patients with severe renal dysfunction, including those on hemodialysis.
The manufacturer product information for ribavirin should be consulted, if applicable.
Common ( to ): Rash/pruritus
Very common ( or more): Nausea (up to )Common ( to ): Diarrhea, abdominal pain
Common ( to ): AnemiaUncommon ( to ): Decreased hemoglobinFrequency not reported: CD+ T-cell counts increased, CD+ T-cell counts decreased
The change from baseline in hemoglobin (Hgb) levels averaged about - g/dL in patients using this drug with ribavirin for  weeks and - g/dL in patients using this drug alone for  weeks.
Hgb level decreased during the first  weeks of therapy, stayed low during the remainder of therapy, and normalized to baseline levels during follow-up.
Less than  of patients using this drug with ribavirin had Hgb levels decrease to less than  g/dL during therapy; no patients using this drug alone had Hgb levels less than  g/dL.
In therapy-naive and therapy-experienced HCV/HIV-coinfected patients treated with this drug alone for  weeks, increase of CD+ T-cell counts (of about  and  cells/mm, respectively) was observed at the end of therapy.
In therapy-experienced HCV/HIV-coinfected patients treated with this drug with ribavirin for  weeks, CD+ T-cell counts decreased about  cells/mm by the end of therapy.
During clinical trials with this drug (with or without ribavirin), regardless of duration of therapy, elevated bilirubin (greater than  x ULN) was reported in  and less than  of patients using this drug with ribavirin and alone, respectively.
These increases were primarily indirect and generally associated with ribavirin coadministration.
Elevated bilirubin was usually not associated with elevated serum ALT.
During clinical trials with this drug (with or without ribavirin), regardless of duration of therapy, ALT in  of  patients increased from normal levels to greater than  times the upper limit of normal ( x ULN), usually at or after  weeks of therapy (mean onset:  weeks; range:  to  weeks).
These late ALT elevations were generally asymptomatic and most resolved with continued use or after completion of therapy.
Late ALT elevations occurred more often in patients higher grazoprevir plasma levels (, female, Asian, age at least  years).
Incidence of late ALT elevations was not affected by duration of therapy and cirrhosis was not a risk factor.
Common ( to ): Elevated bilirubinUncommon ( to ): Elevated ALT
Common ( to ): Arthralgia
Very common ( or more): Headache (up to )
Very common ( or more): Fatigue (up to )Common ( to ): Irritability
Common ( to ): Insomnia, depression
Common ( to ): Dyspnea
It is possible that some side effects of Zepatier may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Dark urine
fever with or without chills
light-colored stools
loss of appetite
nausea and vomiting
unusual tiredness
upper stomach pain
yellow eyes or skin
Headache