Common side effects of Ziagen include: arthralgia, cough, fatigue, lethargy, myalgia, pruritus, vomiting, chills, and malaise.
Other side effects include: hypersensitivity, pharyngitis, and tachypnea.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, abacavir (the active ingredient contained in Ziagen) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking abacavir, check with your doctor immediately:
Some abacavir side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
In  study, patients receiving the once-daily regimen had a significantly higher incidence of severe drug hypersensitivity reactions and severe diarrhea than patients on the twice-daily regimen.
Many of the side effects listed occurred commonly in patients with abacavir (the active ingredient contained in Ziagen) hypersensitivity (, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, lethargy, rash).
Common ( to ): Drug hypersensitivity, hypersensitivity reaction (including fever, rash [maculopapular, urticarial], nausea, vomiting, malaise, diarrhea, headache, fatigue, myalgia, achiness, abdominal pain, pharyngitis, dyspnea, cough, lethargy, myolysis, edema, elevated liver function tests, mucous membrane lesions [conjunctivitis, mouth ulceration], sore throat, adult respiratory distress syndrome, respiratory failure, lymphadenopathy, hypotension, anaphylaxis, paresthesia, lymphopenia, hepatitis, liver failure, arthralgia, elevated creatine phosphokinase, elevated creatinine, renal failure, erythema multiforme, abnormal chest x-ray findings [mainly localized infiltrates], death)Frequency not reported: Serious and sometimes fatal hypersensitivity reactions, abacavir (the active ingredient contained in Ziagen) hypersensitivity reaction presenting as acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia
Serious and sometimes fatal hypersensitivity reactions have been reported with this drug.
Such reactions have included multi-organ failure and anaphylaxis and usually occurred within the first  weeks of therapy (median onset:  to  days); however, abacavir hypersensitivity reactions have occurred any time during therapy.
Patients with the human leukocyte antigen subtype B* (HLA-B*) allele are at higher risk of hypersensitivity reactions to this drug; however, such reactions have occurred in patients without the HLA-B* allele.
Abacavir hypersensitivity was reported in about  of patients in  clinical trials with abacavir-containing products where patients were not screened for the HLA-B* allele; incidence of suspected abacavir hypersensitivity reactions was  in clinical trials where HLA-B* carriers were excluded.
Abacavir hypersensitivity reactions have been characterized by at least  of the following key signs/symptoms:  fever;  rash;  gastrointestinal symptoms (including nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain);  constitutional symptoms (including generalized malaise, fatigue, achiness);  respiratory symptoms (including dyspnea, cough, pharyngitis).
Almost all reactions have included fever and/or rash (usually maculopapular or urticarial); however, reactions also reported without fever or rash.
Signs/symptoms reported in at least  of patients with hypersensitivity reaction have included rash, nausea, vomiting, malaise, diarrhea, headache, fatigue/lethargy, abdominal pain, dyspnea, cough, fever, elevated liver function tests, and myalgia.
Other signs/symptoms of hypersensitivity have included mouth ulceration, sore throat, adult respiratory distress syndrome, respiratory failure, edema, lymphadenopathy, hypotension, conjunctivitis, anaphylaxis, paresthesia, lymphopenia, hepatitis, liver failure, myolysis, arthralgia, elevated creatine phosphokinase, elevated creatinine, renal failure, abnormal chest x-ray findings (mainly infiltrates, which were localized), and death.
Symptoms of abacavir hypersensitivity reaction worsened with continued therapy and generally resolved when this drug was discontinued.
Restarting this drug after a hypersensitivity reaction has resulted in more severe symptoms within hours and included life-threatening hypotension and death.
Rarely, life-threatening reactions have occurred within hours after restarting this drug in patients who stopped it for reasons other than symptoms of hypersensitivity (or who stopped it with only  key symptom of hypersensitivity).
In  case report, a -year-old HIV-positive male presented to medical attention with a -day history of fever, malaise, and diarrhea related to initiation of this drug.
Six days prior to the onset of symptoms, the patient's antiretroviral therapy was switched from efavirenz and lamivudine-zidovudine to zidovudine, abacavir, and lopinavir-ritonavir after a drop in his CD cell count.
The patient developed acute dyspnea and severe hypoxemia, hemoptysis, and diffuse bilateral pulmonary infiltrates within  hours of admission and this drug was discontinued due to suspicion of a hypersensitivity reaction.
Three days after drug discontinuation, the patient's status improved and chest films showed resolution of infiltrates.
Pancreatitis was observed in the expanded access program.
Very common ( or more): Nausea (up to ), nausea and vomiting (up to ), diarrhea (up to )Common ( to ): Abdominal pain/gastritis/gastrointestinal signs and symptoms, vomiting, abdominal discomfort and pain, abnormal amylaseRare ( to ): Pancreatitis
Very common ( or more): Malaise and fatigue (up to ), temperature regulation disturbance (up to )Common ( to ): Fever/pyrexia, lethargy, fatigue, fatigue/malaise, fever and/or chillsUncommon ( to ): Non-site-specific painFrequency not reported: Asthenia, reduced alcohol tolerance, disulfiram-like reaction
In  case report, a -year-old HIV-infected male patient switched to this drug and experienced a disulfiram-like reaction with nausea, facial flushing, and tachycardia after alcohol consumption.
When the patient was rechallenged with a shot of vodka, the same reaction occurred.
In another case, a -year-old HIV-infected male patient switched to this drug and noticed reduced alcohol tolerance.
The patient reported that he felt as if he had ingested  bottles of wine after  glasses, with loss of memory until the next morning and vomiting.
The patient was able to tolerate small quantities of alcohol or alcohol consumed with food.
Very common ( or more): Headache (up to )Common ( to ): Headaches/migraine, dizziness, neuropathy
Very common ( or more): Cough (up to ), ear/nose/throat infections (up to ), nasal signs/symptoms (up to )Common ( to ): Viral respiratory infections (including viral ear, nose, and throat infection), bronchitisFrequency not reported: Tachypnea, pharyngitis
Elevated creatine phosphokinase (greater than  times the upper limit of normal [ x ULN]) has been reported in up to  of patients.
Very common ( or more): Elevated creatine phosphokinase (up to )Common ( to ): Musculoskeletal painCombination antiretroviral therapy:-Frequency not reported: Osteonecrosis
Very common ( or more): Skin rashes (maculopapular, urticarial, or variable appearance; up to )Common ( to ): Rash (without systemic symptoms)Frequency not reported: Sweet's syndromeVery rare (less than ): Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme
Suspected Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) have been reported during postmarketing experience in patients using this drug primarily in combination with agents known to be associated with SJS and TEN, respectively.
Cases of erythema multiforme, SJS, or TEN have been reported very rarely when abacavir hypersensitivity could not be ruled out.
Very common ( or more): Feeding problems (up to )Common ( to ): Hypertriglyceridemia, hyperamylasemia, anorexia, abnormal triglycerides, hyperlactatemiaUncommon ( to ): Hyperglycemia, abnormal alkaline phosphatase, abnormal glucose, abnormal sodiumRare ( to ): Lactic acidosisFrequency not reported: Mild elevations of blood glucose, hypoglycemia, loss of appetitePostmarketing reports: Redistribution/accumulation of body fat (including central obesity, dorsocervical fat enlargement, peripheral wasting, facial wasting, breast enlargement, "cushingoid appearance")Combination antiretroviral therapy:-Frequency not reported: Metabolic abnormalities (, hypertriglyceridemia, hypercholesterolemia, insulin resistance, hyperglycemia, hyperlactatemia)
Hypertriglyceridemia (greater than  mg/dL), hyperamylasemia (greater than  x ULN), and hyperglycemia (greater than  mmol/L) have been reported in up to , up to , and less than  of patients, respectively.
Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis (including fatal cases) have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs.
Very common ( or more): Dreams/sleep disorders Common ( to ): Depression, anxiety, sleep disorders, insomnia, abnormal dreamsFrequency not reported: Mania, worsening of preexisting depression, lethargy
Common ( to ): Elevated ALT, elevated ASTUncommon ( to ): Abnormal bilirubinFrequency not reported: Increased GGT, severe hepatomegaly with steatosisPostmarketing reports: Hepatic steatosis
Elevated ALT (greater than  x ULN) and AST (greater than  x ULN) have been reported in  and up to  of patients, respectively.
The reported frequencies were similar to those observed during clinical trials with zidovudine and lamivudine administration.
Increased GGT was observed in the expanded access program.
Lactic acidosis and severe hepatomegaly with steatosis (including fatal cases) have been reported with the use of nucleoside analogs.
Neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count less than /mm), thrombocytopenia (platelets less than ,/mm), anemia (hemoglobin  g/dL or less), and leukopenia (WBC /mm or less) have been reported in up to , , less than , and less than  of patients, respectively.
The reported frequencies were similar to those observed during clinical trials with zidovudine and lamivudine administration.
Agranulocytosis has been reported after the addition of this drug to a multi-drug regimen.
Common ( to ): Neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, decreased white cells, abnormal absolute neutrophilsUncommon ( to ): Anemia, leukopenia, abnormal hemoglobin, abnormal platelets, abnormal WBCRare (less than ): EosinophiliaFrequency not reported: Agranulocytosis, increased platelet reactivity
Uncommon ( to ): Renal signs/symptoms, abnormal creatinineFrequency not reported: Acute renal failure, interstitial nephritis
Frequency not reported: Immune reconstitution/reactivation syndrome, autoimmune disorders in the setting of immune reconstitution (, Graves' disease, polymyositis, Guillain-Barre syndrome)
An observational study investigating the rate of MI in patients on combination antiretroviral therapy showed an increased risk of MI with the use of this drug within the previous  months.
A sponsor-conducted pooled analysis of clinical trials showed no excess risk of MI in abacavir-treated patients as compared with control subjects.
Overall, available data from the observational cohort and from clinical trials were inconclusive.
Frequency not reported: Endothelial dysfunction, peripheral arterial disease, coronary bypass surgery, ischemic stroke, deep venous thrombosis, angina, transient ischemic attackPostmarketing reports: Myocardial infarction (MI)
It is possible that some side effects of Ziagen may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Abdominal or stomach pain
cough
diarrhea
difficult or labored breathing
fever
headache
joint or muscle pain
nausea
numbness or tingling of the hands, feet, or face
redness and soreness of the eyes
skin rash
sore throat
sores in the mouth
swelling of the feet or lower legs
unusual feeling of discomfort or illness
unusual tiredness
vomiting
Abdominal or stomach swelling
decreased appetite
fast, shallow breathing
sleepiness
Blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
chest pain or discomfort
chills
dark urine
itching
light-colored stools
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
red, irritated eyes
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
sores, ulcers, or white spots in the mouth or on the lips
sweating
unusual weakness
upper right abdominal or stomach pain
yellow eyes and skin
Headache
Trouble sleeping
Breast enlargement
buffalo hump
central obesity
facial wasting
gaining weight around your neck, upper back, breast, face, or waist
peripheral wasting