More frequently reported side effects include: dyspepsia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, zileuton may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.
If any of the following side effects occur while taking zileuton, check with your doctor immediately:
Some zileuton side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The most commonly occurring adverse reactions are sinusitis, nausea, and pharyngolaryngeal pain.
Very common ( or more): Headache (up to )Common ( to ): Hypertonia, nervousness, dizziness, somnolence
Common ( to ): Pruritus, urticaria
Common ( to ): Dyspepsia , nausea , diarrhea , abdominal pain, upper abdominal pain, vomiting, constipation, flatulence
Common ( to ): Urinary tract infection, vaginitis
Common ( to ): Low white blood cell count 
The WBC counts returned to normal or baseline following discontinuation of this drug.
The clinical significance of these findings is not known.
Common ( to ): Hepatotoxicity, ALT elevations Postmarketing reports: Hepatic injury, including death, life-threatening liver injury with recovery, symptomatic jaundice, hyperbilirubinemia, and elevations of ALT more than  times ULN
The majority of ALT elevations  were reported within the first  months of treatment and resolved within  days for most of these patients after discontinuation of the drug.
In the extended release group, the majority of ALT elevations  occurred in the first month of treatment; in a few patients, the levels returned to less than  times ULN or normal within  and  days.
The hepatic function enzyme elevations did not result in any cases of jaundice, development of chronic liver disease, or death in this clinical trial.
In patients who discontinued this drug, ALT levels dropped below  times ULN in approximately one month.
Common ( to ): Hypersensitivity, rash
Common ( to ): Lymphadenopathy
Common ( to ): Myalgia , arthralgia, neck pain/rigidity
Common ( to ): Conjunctivitis
Common ( to ): Pain , asthenia , accidental injury , fever, malaise
Common ( to ): InsomniaPostmarketing reports: Sleep disorders, behavior changes
Common ( to ): Upper respiratory tract infections , sinusitis , pharyngolaryngeal pain , chest pain
It is possible that some side effects of zileuton may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Flu-like symptoms
itching
right upper stomach pain
unusual tiredness or weakness
yellow eyes or skin
Attack, assault, or force
attempts at killing oneself
discouragement
dry mouth
fear or nervousness
feeling sad or empty
hyperventilation
irregular heartbeats
irritability
lack of appetite
loss of interest or pleasure
restlessness
seeing, hearing, or feeling things that are not there
shakiness in the legs, arms, hands, or feet
shortness of breath
sleeplessness
tiredness
trembling or shaking of the hands or feet
trouble with concentrating
trouble with sleeping
unable to sleep
Cough
fever
headache
nausea
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
stuffy or runny nose
tightness of the chest or wheezing
troubled breathing
upset stomach
Abdominal or stomach pain
sore throat
weakness