Common side effects of Zurampic include: increased serum creatinine.
Other side effects include: acute renal failure.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, lesinurad (the active ingredient contained in Zurampic) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking lesinurad, check with your doctor immediately:
Some lesinurad side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
The more common side effects include increased serum creatinine, headache, influenza, and gastroesophageal reflux disease.
When used at labeled doses in combination with a xanthine oxidase inhibitor (XOI), serum creatinine increases of 1.
5 to less than 2 times or 2 times or greater from baseline occurred in 3.
9% (n=20/511) and 1.
8% (n=9/511) of patients, respectively.
Increased serum creatinine levels resolved in most patients (up to 90%) without treatment interruption.
Based on baseline renal function, serum creatinine increases occurred in 3%, 3.
8%, and 6.
9% of patients with normal (CrCl greater than 90 mL/min), mild (CrCl 60 to less than 90 mL/min), or moderate (CrCl greater than 30 to less than 60 mL/min) renal impairment.
Use at higher than approved doses with or without an XOI resulted in increased serum creatinine levels.
Consistently, patients receiving 400 mg daily as monotherapy experienced a higher incidence of renal failure.
Nephrolithiasis occurred more frequently in patients receiving 400 mg daily in combination with an XOI (2.
5%) compared to labeled doses in combination with an XOI (0.
6%).
Common (1% to 10%): Increased serum creatinine, renal failureUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Nephrolithiasis
Common (1% to 10%): Headache
Common (1% to 10%): Influenza
Common (1% to 10%): Gastroesophageal reflux disease
Frequency not reported: Cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke
Incidence rate ratios for major adverse cardiac events compared to placebo were 1.
36 (95% CI: 0.
23, 9.
25) in 200 mg and 2.
71 (95% CI: 0.
66, 16) in 400 mg.
It is possible that some side effects of Zurampic may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Agitation
chest pain or discomfort
confusion
decreased urine output
depression
difficulty with speaking
dizziness
double vision
headache
hostility
inability to move the arms, legs, or facial muscles
inability to speak
irritability
lethargy
muscle twitching
nausea
pain or discomfort in the arms, jaw, back, or neck
rapid weight gain
seizures
shortness of breath
slow speech
sweating
swelling of the face, ankles, or hands
unusual tiredness or weakness
vomiting
Chills
cough
diarrhea
fever
general feeling of discomfort or illness
joint pain
loss of appetite
muscle aches and pains
runny nose
shivering
sore throat
trouble sleeping
Heartburn