Common side effects of Zyclara include: dermal ulcer, application site reaction, burning sensation, desquamation, edema, excoriation, exfoliation of skin, pruritus, skin erosion, and erythema.
Other side effects include: back pain, headache, and pain.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, imiquimod topical (the active ingredient contained in Zyclara) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking imiquimod topical, check with your doctor immediately:
If any of the following symptoms of overdose occur while taking imiquimod topical, get emergency help immediately:
Some imiquimod topical side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
In general, the side effects associated with imiquimod topical (the active ingredient contained in Zyclara) may vary depending on the condition being treated.
Local skin reactions were recorded as adverse reactions only if they extended beyond the treatment area, if they required any medical intervention, or they resulted in patient discontinuation from a study.
In studies involving treatment of actinic keratosis or superficial basal cell carcinoma, the dermatologic side effects classified as local and application site most frequently resulted in clinical intervention (e.
g.
, rest periods, withdrawal from study, treatment site infections requiring treatment with antibiotics).
Flaking/scaling was reported in 40% of males and 26% of females and scabbing/crusting was reported in 34% of males and 18% of females; otherwise, frequency and severity of local skin reactions were similar in both genders.
Local side effects have included application site reaction (up to 33%), application site pain (up to 7%), application site irritation (up to 6%), application site pruritus (up to 4%), application site bleeding, application site swelling, treatment site infection, scarring, application site rash, application site cellulitis, and application site excoriation.
Local skin reactions have included erythema (all grades: up to 100%; severe: up to 31%), scabbing/crusting (all grades: up to 93%; severe: up to 19%), flaking/scaling/dryness (all grades: up to 93%; severe: up to 8%), flaking/scaling (all grades: 91% ; severe: 4%), induration (all grades: up to 84% ; severe: up to 6%), edema (all grades: up to 78%; severe: up to 7%), erosion (all grades: up to 66% ; severe: up to 14%), erosion/ulceration (all grades: up to 62%; severe: up to 13%), exudate (all grades: up to 51%; severe: 6%), ulceration (all grades: up to 40% ; severe: up to 6%), weeping/exudate (all grades: up to 22%), vesicles (all grades: up to 31%; severe: up to 2%), excoriation/flaking (all grades: up to 26%; severe: up to 1%), and scabbing (all grades: up to 13%).
Application site reactions have included itching (up to 20%), burning (6%), bleeding (up to 3%), stinging (3%), pain (3%), erythema (2%), papule(s) (2%), induration (2%), tenderness (up to 2%), irritation (2%), and infection (1%).
Application site disorders reported in more than 1% of patients have included burning, hypopigmentation, rash, sensitivity, soreness, stinging, and tenderness.
Itching (32% in females, 22% in males), burning (26% in females, 9% in males), pain (8% in females, 2% in males), and soreness (3% in females) were reported at the wart site.
Tingling at the application site has been reported during postmarketing experience.
Respiratory side effects have included upper respiratory tract infection (up to 15%), sinusitis (up to 7%), rhinitis (3%), coughing (2%), and pharyngitis (1%).
Pulmonary congestion and bronchitis have been reported.
Dyspnea and pulmonary edema have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Immunologic side effects have included fungal infection (11% in females, 2% in males), herpes simplex (up to 3%), oral herpes (up to 3%), viral infection (1%), herpes zoster, and infection.
Herpes simplex has also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Two cases involving the development of chronic neuropathic pain following initiation of imiquimod topical (the active ingredient contained in Zyclara) therapy for the treatment of warts have been reported.
In the first case, a 53-year-old man with genital warts reported an erosion with substantial pain on the left lateral glans of the penis approximately 1 week following initiation of therapy with imiquimod applied topically 3 times a week.
Imiquimod therapy was discontinued; however, the patient continued to report a burning-like pain and erythema in the area for approximately 2 years.
The condition may have been exacerbated by aerobic exercise, sweating, and sexual activity.
In the second case report, a 64-year-old woman with plantar warts developed numbness and pain in all toes and the balls of both feet following approximately 5 months of therapy with imiquimod topical applied each night with tape occlusion.
Imiquimod topical was discontinued.
This condition may have been exacerbated by a daily paring of the warts by the patient prior to imiquimod application.
Approximately 2 years later, the patient reported a gradual improvement in the numbness and an absence of the burning-like pain.
Neither patient had diabetes mellitus, or any other condition known to result in possible neuropathic pain.
Nervous system side effects have included headache (up to 8%), dizziness (up to 3%), insomnia, and lethargy.
Nervous system side effects have rarely included neuropathic pain.
Agitation, convulsions (including febrile convulsions), insomnia, multiple sclerosis aggravation, and paresis have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Other side effects have included back pain (up to 4%), fatigue (up to 4%), influenza-like illness (up to 4%), pyrexia (up to 3%), pain (up to 3%), influenza-like symptoms (3% in females, 1% in males), rigors (1%), and chills.
Hernia, inflicted injury, and postoperative pain have been reported.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included nausea (up to 4%), anorexia (up to 3%), diarrhea (up to 3%), dyspepsia (2%), cheilitis (up to 2%), and vomiting (up to 1%).
Gastrointestinal disorder and aphthous ulcers (rare) have been reported.
Abdominal pain has been reported during postmarketing experience.
A review of 3 case reports involving patients receiving imiquimod topical applied 2 or 3 times weekly for treatment of actinic cheilitis in the lip region reported the formation of aphthous ulcers approximately 2 to 3 weeks following initiation of treatment.
In each case, the aphthous ulcers resolved upon discontinuation of imiquimod topical and treatment with a topical steroid.
None of the patients consented to a rechallenge.
An 87-year-old Caucasian woman developed invasive amelanotic melanoma with satellite lesions within 14 weeks after initiation of treatment with imiquimod three times per week.
It is unknown if this was a probable side effect of imiquimod or a progressive event of melanoma in situ.
Oncologic side effects have included squamous cell carcinoma (up to 4%).
Basal cell carcinoma has been reported.
Oncologic side effects reported during non-FDA approved treatment of melanoma in situ have included a single case report of the development of invasive melanoma.
Hematologic side effects have included lymphadenopathy (up to 3%) and pancytopenia.
Decreases in red cell, white cell, and platelet counts (including idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura), and lymphoma have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Cardiovascular side effects have included chest pain (up to 2%), atrial fibrillation (1%), and hypertension.
Capillary leak syndrome, cardiac failure, cardiomyopathy, cerebrovascular accident, arrhythmias (tachycardia, supraventricular tachycardia, atrial fibrillation, palpitations), chest pain, ischemia, myocardial infarction, syncope, and Henoch-Schonlein purpura syndrome have been reported during postmarketing experience.
In the studies involving treatment of genital/perianal warts, the skin reactions reported were more frequent and more intense with daily application of the cream than with the application of the cream three times per week.
In studies involving treatment of actinic keratosis or superficial basal cell carcinoma, the dermatologic side effects classified as local and application site most frequently resulted in clinical intervention (e.
g.
, rest periods, withdrawal from study, treatment site infections requiring treatment with antibiotics).
Dermatologic side effects have included eczema (2%), alopecia (1%), dermatitis, and pruritus.
Remote site skin reaction were reported and included erythema (3% in females, 1% in males), ulceration (2% in females), erosion (2% in males), edema (1% in females, 1% in males), induration (1% in males), and excoriation/flaking (1% in males).
Remote site reactions reported in more than 1% of patients have included bleeding, burning, itching, pain, tenderness, and tinea cruris.
Hyperkeratosis, rash, skin disorder, photosensitivity reaction, verruca, and remote site irritation have been reported.
Imiquimod-induced psoriasis and at least 1 case each of vitiligo-like hyperpigmentation, contact pemphigus, pityriasis rubra pilaris exacerbation, erosive pustular dermatosis of the scalp, and eruptive keratoacanthoma have been reported.
Exfoliative dermatitis, erythema multiforme, hyperpigmentation, hypopigmentation, and hypertrophic scar have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Musculoskeletal side effects have included arthralgia (up to 3%) and myalgia (up to 1%).
Arthritis and skeletal pain have been reported.
Arthralgia has also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Genitourinary side effects have included bacterial vaginitis (up to 3% of females), urinary tract infections (1%), scrotal pain, scrotal erythema, scrotal ulcer, and scrotal edema.
Proteinuria, urinary retention, and dysuria have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Psychiatric side effects have included anxiety (1%).
Depression and suicide have been reported during postmarketing experience.
Ocular side effects have included conjunctivitis and eye abnormality.
Hypersensitivity side effects have included angioedema during postmarketing experience.
Aggravation of allergy has been reported.
A 61-year-old man developed angioedema 3 weeks into treatment for squamous cell carcinoma in situ located on the right forearm.
One week prior he had developed ulceration over the application site.
The angioedema started in the right hand at which time the imiquimod therapy was discontinued.
Within 36 hours of discontinuation the angioedema had encompassed both hands and feet and the ulcerated application site.
Fifty-four hours following discontinuation of therapy the patient was awakened by severe swelling of the tongue, diagnosed by the emergency room physician as angioedema of the tongue.
The patient experienced difficulty talking and swallowing, but no respiratory distress.
The patient denied presence of chills, fever, or influenza-like symptoms.
The patient denied history of urticaria, angioedema, or anaphylaxis.
The patient was stable on all medications prior to initiation of imiquimod therapy.
The patient improved following treatment with intravenous diphenhydramine and methylprednisolone.
It is thought that the large application site (16.
7 m2) and the ulceration may have facilitated in the absorption of imiquimod resulting in the angioedema.
Metabolic side effects have included hypercholesterolemia and gout.
Hepatic side effects have included abnormal liver function during postmarketing experience.
Endocrine side effects have included thyroiditis during postmarketing experience.
It is possible that some side effects of Zyclara may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Blisters on the skin
body aches or pain
chills
cough
difficulty with breathing
ear congestion
itching in the genital or other skin areas
loss of voice
open sores or scabs on the skin
pain or tenderness around the eyes and cheekbones
redness of the skin (severe)
scaling
shortness of breath or troubled breathing
skin rash
sneezing
sore throat
stuffy or runny nose
tightness of the chest or wheezing
unusual tiredness or weakness
Abdominal or stomach pain
ankle, knee, or great toe joint pain
bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
blurred vision
chest pain
cold flu-like symptoms
difficult, burning, or painful urination
dizziness
fainting
fast or irregular heartbeat
frequent urge to urinate
hoarseness
joint stiffness or swelling
lower back or side pain
lump in the abdomen or stomach
nervousness
persistent non-healing sore
pink growth on the skin
pounding in the ears
reddish patch or irritated area
severe headache
shiny bump on the skin
slow or fast heartbeat
swollen, painful, or tender lymph glands in the neck, armpit, or groin
white, yellow or waxy scar-like area
Blue lips and fingernails
convulsions
coughing that sometimes produces a pink frothy sputum
dilated neck veins
extreme fatigue
fast, irregular, or pounding heartbeat
headache
irregular breathing
nausea or vomiting
pain in the shoulders, arms, jaw, or neck
slurred speech
sudden and severe inability to speak
suicide
sweating
swelling of the face, fingers, feet, or lower legs
temporary blindness
weakness in the arm or leg on one side of the body
weight gain
Confusion
dizziness, faintness, or lightheadedness when getting up suddenly from a lying or sitting position
Burning or stinging of the skin (mild)
flaking of the skin
mild headache
pain, soreness, or tenderness of the skin (mild)
rash
redness of the skin (mild)
swelling at place of application
Back pain
lightening of the treated skin