Common side effects of Zylet include: increased intraocular pressure and superficial punctate keratitis.
Other side effects include: burning sensation and stinging sensation.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
As well as its needed effects, loteprednol / tobramycin ophthalmic may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking loteprednol / tobramycin ophthalmic, check with your doctor immediately:
Some loteprednol / tobramycin ophthalmic side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Very common (10% or more): Injection (20%), superficial punctuate keratitis (15%), intraocular pressure increased (10%)Frequency not reported: Vision disorder, discharge, itching, lacrimation disorder, photophobia, corneal deposit, ocular discomfort, eyelid disorder, unspecified eye disorderLoteprednol etabonate:Frequency not reported: Intraocular pressure increased, visual acuity defect, field defect, posterior subcapsular cataract formation, delayed wound healing, secondary ocular infectionTobramycin:Frequency not reported: Lid itching, conjunctival erythema, lid swelling
Very common (10% or more): Headache (14%)
Tobramycin:Frequency not reported: Hypersensitivity
The most frequently reported side effects were injections and superficial punctate keratitis, increased intraocular pressure, and burning and stinging upon instillation.
Common (1% to 10%): Burning, stingingTobramycin:Frequency not reported: Localized ocular toxicity
It is possible that some side effects of Zylet may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
Blurred vision
change in vision
feeling like something is in the eye
increased intraocular pressure
loss of vision
pain or irritation of the clear front part of the eye
sensitivity of the eyes to light
Blurred vision or seeing blue-green halos around objects
decreased vision
difficulty seeing at night
discharge from the eye
dry eyes
eyelid burning, redness, itching, pain, or tenderness
fast heartbeat
fever
hives
hoarseness
irritation and swelling of the eye
itching
joint pain
lid itching and swelling
pain in the eye
rash
redness of the eyelid
redness of the skin
shortness of breath
stiffness or swelling
swelling of the eyelids, face, lips, hands, or feet
tightness in the chest
troubled breathing or swallowing
wheezing
Redness of the eye
tearing
Burning of the eye
headache
increased sensitivity of the eyes to light
stinging of the eye