Common side effects of Zyprexa include: asthenia, dizziness, drowsiness, extrapyramidal reaction, hyperkinesia, akinesia, cogwheel rigidity, drug-induced parkinson's disease, dyspepsia, mask-like face, and xerostomia.
Other side effects include: abnormal gait, back pain, constipation, fever, orthostatic hypotension, weight gain, myoclonus, and personality disorder.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, olanzapine (the active ingredient contained in Zyprexa) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking olanzapine, check with your doctor immediately:
Some olanzapine side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
Post-Injection delirium/sedation syndrome, a collection of signs and symptoms consistent with olanzapine (the active ingredient contained in Zyprexa) overdose has been reported following injections of the extended-release IM suspension.
Events occurred in less than 0.
1% of injections and in approximately 2% of patients receiving injections for up to 46 months.
Onset of events ranged from soon after injection to greater than 3 hours later.
The majority of patients were hospitalized and some required supportive care, including intubation.
Two deaths have been reported occurring 3 to 4 days after receiving the appropriate dose of the extended-release IM suspension.
In these patients, very high olanzapine blood levels were reported after death.
A study undertaken to determine the cause of the elevated drug levels in these 2 deaths provides inconclusive results.
As reported in a 3-23-2015 drug safety communication issued by the US Food and Drug Administration, a study in animals found much of the drug level increases could have occurred after death, but the possibility that the deaths were caused by a rapid, but delayed entry of the drug in to the bloodstream could not be ruled out.
Seizures occurred in 0.
15% of patients receiving the IM extended-release suspension and 0.
9% of patients receiving oral olanzapine.
Somnolence was reported in 8% of patients receiving IM extended-release suspension.
Sedation was reported in up to 44% of adolescents receiving this drug in short term schizophrenia or bipolar I disorder clinical trials.
When stopping abruptly, discontinuation symptoms such as sweating, insomnia, tremor, anxiety, nausea, and vomiting, have been reported.
Very common (10% or more): Somnolence (up to 44%), headache (up to 18%), sedation (up to 13%), dizziness (up to 18%)Common (1% to 10%): Post-Injection Delirium/Sedation Syndrome, dysarthria, tremor, hypertonia, abnormal gait, parkinsonismUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Seizures, cerebrovascular accident, ataxia, stupor, dystonia, tardive dyskinesia, amnesiaRare (less than 0.
1%): Coma, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, discontinuation symptoms
Very common (10% or more): Orthostatic hypotensionCommon (1% to 10%): ECG QT-corrected interval prolonged, hypertension, postural hypotension, chest pain, tachycardia, peripheral edemaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Syncope-related events, vasodilation, bradycardiaRare (less than 0.
1%): Ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation, sudden deathPostmarketing reports: Venous thromboembolic events
Collective data gathered from 17 placebo-controlled clinical studies (n=5106) involving the use of atypical antipsychotic agents, including olanzapine, for the treatment of behavioral disorders in the elderly patient with dementia showed a risk of death 1.
6 to 1.
7 times greater in the drug treated patient than in the placebo treated patient.
The average length of duration for the trials was 10 weeks with the cause of death in the majority of cases, though not all, reported as either cardiovascular (e.
g.
, heart failure, sudden death) or infectious (e.
g.
, pneumonia) in nature.
Olanzapine is not approved by the FDA for use in the treatment of behavioral disorders in elderly patients with dementia.
Very common (10% or more): Increased weight (up to 30%), increased appetite (up to 24%) Common (1% to 10%): Elevated cholesterol, elevated glucose, elevated triglyceridesFrequency not reported: Hyperglycemia associated with ketoacidosis or hyperosmolar coma or deathPostmarketing reports: Diabetic coma, diabetic ketoacidosis
Olanzapine appears to have a greater association than some other atypical antipsychotics for increasing glucose levels.
Mean increases of up to 15 mg/dL have been reported.
The differences in mean changes in serum glucose were higher in patients with evidence of glucose dysregulation at baseline.
In an analysis of patients who completed 9 to 12 months of therapy, the rate on increase in mean blood glucose slowed after approximately 6 months.
Clinically significant alterations in lipids have been observed including serum triglyceride elevations greater than 500 mg/dL.
In long-term studies of at least 48-weeks in adults, increased from baseline in mean fasting cholesterol, LDL, triglycerides were 5.
6 mg/dL, 2.
5 mg/dL, and 18.
7 mg/dL, respectively.
Mean increases in fasting lipid values (total cholesterol, LDL and triglycerides) were greater in patients without evidence of lipid dysregulation at baseline.
In 13 placebo-controlled monotherapy trials, olanzapine-treated patients gained an average of 2.
6 kg compared to an average 0.
3 kg weight loss in placebo patients; 22.
5% gained at least 7% of their baseline weight, 4.
2% at least 15% of their baseline (compared to 3% and 0.
3% in placebo).
Clinically significant weight gain was observed across all baseline BMIs.
With longer term exposure (at least 48 weeks), weight gain of 7%, 15%, or 25% or more were reported in 64.
4%, 31.
7%, and 12.
3%, respectively.
Weight gain and increased appetite were reported in 30% and 24% of adolescents receiving this drug in short term schizophrenia or bipolar I disorder clinical trials (n=179; placebo patients reported both events at a rate of 6%).
Very common (10% or more): Dry mouth (up to 22%), constipation (up to 11%), dyspepsia (up to 11%)Common (1% to 10%): Abdominal pain, diarrhea, flatulence, nausea, toothache, vomiting, toothache Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Tongue edemaRare (less than 0.
1%): Ileus, intestinal obstructionPostmarketing reports: Pancreatitis
Nausea and dry mouth have been reported to be dose related.
A 65 year old man developed fecal incontinence following initiation of treatment with olanzapine 2.
5 mg daily.
This effect continued until the patient's next scheduled exam, at approximately 20 days after initiation of therapy, at which point olanzapine was discontinued.
Fecal incontinence resolved within approximately 24 hours.
No organic cause for fecal incontinence was determined, rectal exam was negative, sigmoidoscopy results were normal, and lab tests were all within normal limits.
Common (1% to 10%): Increased hepatic enzymesUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Alkaline phosphatase increases, bilirubinemia, hypoproteinemia Rare (less than 0.
1%): Fatty liver depositPostmarketing reports: Jaundice
Transient, asymptomatic elevations of hepatic transaminases were commonly seen, especially early in treatment.
Common (1% to 10%): Nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, cough, nasal congestion, pharyngolaryngeal pain, sneezing, rhinitis, pharyngitis, pneumoniaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): EpistaxisRare (less than 0.
1%): Lung edema
Very common (10% or more): hyperprolactinemiaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Decreased libido, breast pain
In clinical studies, changes in prolactin levels were found to be statistically significantly different based on dose, higher doses were associated with higher levels of prolactin.
In a study of up to 12 weeks, plasma prolactin concentrations exceeded the upper limit of normal (ULN) in approximately 30% of patients who had normal baseline prolactin values.
The majority of these elevations were mild, and remained below 2 x ULN.
Common (1% to 10%): Ecchymosis, eosinophilia, leukopenia, neutropeniaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Thrombocytopenia
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Dry eyes, abnormality of accommodation, amblyopiaRare (less than 0.
1%): Mydriasis
Very common (10% or more): Akathisia (up to 27%), asthenia (up to 15%)Common (1% to 10%): Ear pain, fatigue, pyrexia Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Chills
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): HypersensitivityPostmarketing reports: Allergic reaction
Common (1% to 10%): Vaginal dischargeUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Amenorrhea, decreased/increased menstruation, impotence, menorrhagia, metrorrhagia, polyuria, urinary frequency, urinary retention, urinary urgency, urination impairedVery rare (less than 0.
01%):Postmarketing reports: Priapism
Common (1% to 10%): Arthralgia, back pain, muscle spasms, musculoskeletal stiffness, joint pain, extremity painRare (less than 0.
1%): OsteoporosisPostmarketing reports: Rhabdomyolysis
Common (1% to 10%): AcneUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Face edema, photosensitivity reaction, alopeciaPostmarketing reports: Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), rash
Very common (10% or more): Insomnia (up to 12%)Common (1% to 10%): Abnormal dreams, auditory hallucination, restlessness, sleep disorder, abnormal thinking, personality disorder, insomniaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Personality disorder, suicide attempt
For the collection of adverse reactions, the term personality disorder was used to collect data on nonaggressive objectionable behavior.
The most common adverse reactions associated with the immediate-release products were postural hypotension, constipation, weight gain, dizziness, personality disorder, and akathisia.
The most common adverse reactions associated with the extended-release IM injection included headache, sedation, weight gain, cough, diarrhea, back pain, nausea, somnolence, dry mouth, nasopharyngitis, increased appetite, and vomiting.
Common (1% to 10%): Injection site painRare (less than 0.
1%): Injection site abscess
It is possible that some side effects of Zyprexa may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
intramuscular powder for solution, intramuscular powder for suspension extended release
Bloating or swelling of the face, arms, hands, lower legs, or feet
blurred vision
change in vision
change in walking and balance
clumsiness or unsteadiness
difficulty with speaking
difficulty with swallowing
drooling
impaired vision
inability to sit still
loss of balance control
mask-like face
muscle trembling, jerking, or stiffness
need to keep moving
rapid weight gain
restlessness
shuffling walk
slowed movements
slurred speech
stiffness of the arms and legs
tic-like (jerky) movements of the head, face, mouth, and neck
tingling of the hands or feet
trembling or shaking of the fingers, hands, feet, legs, or arms
twisting movements of the body
uncontrolled movements, especially of the face, neck, and back
unusual weight gain or loss
Bladder pain
bloody or cloudy urine
bruising
burning, crawling, itching, numbness, prickling, "pins and needles", or tingling feelings
chest pain
difficult or labored breathing
difficult, burning, or painful urination
dizziness
excessive muscle tone
frequent urge to urinate
headache
inability to move the eyes
increased blinking or spasms of the eyelid
itching of the vagina or genital area
lack of coordination
large, flat, blue, or purplish patches in the skin
loss of bladder control
loss of memory
lower back or side pain
muscle tension or tightness
nervousness
pain during sexual intercourse
pounding in the ears
problems with memory
rhythmic movement of the muscles
slow, fast, pounding, or irregular heartbeat or pulse
speaking is less clear than usual
sticking out the tongue
thick, white vaginal discharge with no odor or with a mild odor
tightness in the chest
twitching
uncontrolled twisting movements of the neck, trunk, arms, or legs
unusual or incomplete body or facial movements
weakness of the arms and legs
Acid or sour stomach
back pain
belching
change in personality
difficulty having a bowel movement (stool)
discouragement
feeling sad or empty
fever
heartburn
increased appetite
increased cough
indigestion
lack of appetite
lack or loss of strength
loss of interest or pleasure
runny nose
sneezing
stomach discomfort, upset, or pain
stuffy nose
thirst
trouble sleeping
trouble with concentrating
watering of the mouth
Blemishes on the skin
body aches or pain
chills
cold sweats
congestion
cough
dry skin
dryness or soreness of the throat
false or unusual sense of well-being
heavy menstrual bleeding (periods)
hoarseness
joint pain
lack of feeling or emotion
leg cramps
pain in the arms or legs
pimples
sweating
tender, swollen glands in the neck
uncaring feelings
voice change
vomiting