Side effects include:
Adults and children  years of age: Somnolence, fatigue, dry mouth.
Insomnia reported with cetirizine (the active ingredient contained in Zyrtec) hydrochloride-pseudoephedrine hydrochloride fixed combination.
Children  years of age: Headache, pharyngitis, abdominal pain.
Children  months to  years of age: Irritability, fussiness, insomnia, fatigue, malaise.
Nervous system side effects have included headache , fatigue , and somnolence ( to ).
Somnolence tends to be dose-related and generally occurs more frequently with doses higher than  mg per day.
Other nervous system side effects include dizziness , insomnia , and nervousness .
Post marketing reports have included aggression reaction and convulsions.
Cetirizine appears to be more sedating than loratadine.
Gastrointestinal side effects have included dry mouth  and nausea or vomiting .
Pharyngitis, dyspepsia, and increased appetite have occasionally been reported.
Hepatic side effects have included rare liver function test abnormalities which resolved spontaneously following discontinuation of cetirizine (the active ingredient contained in Zyrtec) therapy.
At least one case of recurrent acute hepatitis has also been associated with cetirizine use.
Respiratory side effects have included relatively rare reports of wheezing, coughing, bronchitis, sinusitis, and asthma.
Dermatologic side effects have included reports of maculopapular and urticarial eruptions.
Fixed drug eruptions have also been associated with cetirizine (the active ingredient contained in Zyrtec) 
General side effects have included epistaxis  and accidental injury .
Hypersensitivity side effects have included a case report of an anaphylactic reaction.
Delusional thinking and depression has been reported in an -year-old woman started on cetirizine (the active ingredient contained in Zyrtec)  the symptoms resolved once cetirizine was discontinued.
Postmarketing psychiatric side effects have included reports of aggressive reaction, hallucinations, suicidal ideation and suicide.
It is possible that some side effects of Zyrtec may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.