More frequent side effects include: anemia, decreased hemoglobin, and thrombocytopenia.
See below for a comprehensive list of adverse effects.
Other dosage forms:
As well as its needed effects, linezolid (the active ingredient contained in Zyvox) may cause unwanted side effects that require medical attention.

If any of the following side effects occur while taking linezolid, check with your doctor immediately:
Some linezolid side effects may not need any medical attention.
As your body gets used to the medicine these side effects may disappear.
Your health care professional may be able to help you prevent or reduce these side effects, but do check with them if any of the following side effects continue, or if you are concerned about them:
This drug was discontinued due to side effects in up to 3.
5% of patients.
The most common side effects leading to discontinuation were diarrhea, headache, nausea, and vomiting.
Common (1% to 10%): Headache, dizziness, taste alteration/perversion (metallic taste)Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Convulsions, hypoesthesia, paresthesia, tinnitusFrequency not reported: Drowsiness, seizure, Bell's palsy, sensory lossPostmarketing reports: Serotonin syndrome (with concomitant serotonergic agents), peripheral neuropathy
Several cases of peripheral and/or optic neuropathy have been reported, mainly when the duration of therapy was longer than 28 days.
For example, irreversible sensory loss and peripheral neuropathy were reported in a patient after using this drug for 6 months for actinomycosis.
The time from the onset of therapy to the first sign of peripheral neuropathy averaged 4 months (range: 10 days to 6 months) in 10 patients with only peripheral neuropathy.
In all patients with peripheral neuropathy (n=16), complete recovery was not observed after this drug was stopped.
At least 15 instances of serotonin syndrome have been reported in patients using this drug with citalopram, sertraline, venlafaxine, fluoxetine, or paroxetine; other concurrent drugs and/or comorbidities may have contributed to the development of serotonin syndrome.
The time from the onset of therapy to the first sign of serotonin syndrome averaged 4 days (range: 1 to 20 days) and from the first sign to stopping this drug ranged from 1 to 16 days.
Symptoms resolved within 1 to 9 days in 14 patients while 1 patient died suddenly.
Three patients died.
The first patient developed symptoms 3 weeks after concurrent use of this drug and citalopram.
Severe lactic acidosis developed followed by myocardial infarction, and after 3 further episodes of cardiac arrest, the patient died.
The second patient stopped sertraline on day 1 and developed symptoms on day 9 of linezolid therapy.
The patient had cardiopulmonary arrest, then anoxic brain injury, hypertension, tachycardia, and diarrhea, and died in 2 weeks; a similar incident occurred 6 weeks earlier when this drug and sertraline were used.
The third patient, who was using citalopram, developed symptoms on day 2 of linezolid therapy and died with cerebral hemorrhage 1 month after the start of serotonin syndrome despite stopping this drug.
A 49-year-old male with multiple comorbidities developed symptoms on day 21 of therapy and was diagnosed with Bell's palsy; symptoms included strange sensation in mouth (no pain, sores, blisters), excessive tearing of left eye, inability to drink properly, left facial frowning, and left-sided facial weakness (involving upper and lower facial muscles).
This drug was discontinued and the Bell's palsy completely resolved by day 90.
The patient restarted linezolid 5 months later and again showed symptoms on day 21 of therapy.
This drug was discontinued and by day 35, the Bell's palsy had practically resolved.
The patient had no remaining symptoms 4 months after his second episode.
Convulsions have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
In cases with known outcome, tooth discoloration was removable with professional dental cleaning (manual descaling).
A 60-year-old man with spondylodiscitis developed a fatal case of C difficile colitis after a long-term course of this drug.
Superficial tooth discoloration and tongue discoloration have also been reported during postmarketing experience.
Common (1% to 10%): Diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, elevated lipase, elevated amylase, tongue discoloration, oral candidiasis, localized abdominal pain, generalized abdominal pain, constipation, dyspepsiaUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Pancreatitis, gastritis, abdominal distention, dry mouth, glossitis, loose stools, stomatitis, tongue disorderRare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): Antibiotic-associated colitis (including pseudomembranous colitis), superficial tooth discolorationFrequency not reported: Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea, lingua villosa nigra, C difficile colitis
Common (1% to 10%): Decreased hemoglobin, decreased platelet count, decreased WBC count, anemia, decreased neutrophils, thrombocytopenia/low platelet count (some requiring platelet transfusions), decreased leukocytes, increased neutrophils, increased eosinophils, decreased hematocrit, decreased RBC count, increased platelet count, increased WBC countUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Leukopenia, neutropenia, eosinophilia, increased reticulocyte countRare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): PancytopeniaFrequency not reported: Red cell hypoplasia, myelotoxicity, bleeding eventsPostmarketing reports: Myelosuppression (including anemia, leukopenia, pancytopenia, thrombocytopenia), sideroblastic anemia
Thrombocytopenia (platelets less than 100,000/mm3) has been reported in 32% of patients (n=19) using this drug for more than 10 days.
In another study (n=295), thrombocytopenia (platelets less than 150 x 10[9]/L) occurred in 6.
4% of patients and severe thrombocytopenia (platelets less than 50 x 10[9]/L) occurred in 0.
3% using this drug for more than 5 days.
It has been suggested that the mechanism of linezolid-associated thrombocytopenia was immune-mediated.
In a study of patients with linezolid-associated thrombocytopenia, the use of vitamin B6 helped reverse the incidence of thrombocytopenia.
Vitamin B6 was most effective when used after this drug was held.
Once hematologic levels returned to baseline, coadministration of this drug with vitamin B6 resulted in stable hemoglobin levels for the remainder of therapy.
Another study compared this drug plus 50 mg vitamin B6 per day (n=31) with this drug alone (n=62) administered to patients with cancer.
This study concluded vitamin B6 was not beneficial in the prevention of leukopenia or thrombocytopenia, but found a possible trend towards the prevention of anemia.
Common (1% to 10%): Elevated ALT, elevated AST, abnormal liver function testsUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Elevated total bilirubin
Common (1% to 10%): Elevated alkaline phosphatase, elevated LDH, elevated nonfasting glucoseUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Hyponatremia, decreased nonfasting glucoseFrequency not reported: Hyperlactatemia, metabolic acidosis, hypokalemiaPostmarketing reports: Lactic acidosis, hypoglycemia (including symptomatic episodes)
At least 7 instances of lactic acidosis have been reported after use of this drug.
The time from the onset of therapy to the first sign of lactic acidosis ranged from 1 to 16 weeks.
This drug was stopped within 4 days of identifying lactic acidosis.
Two of the 7 patients died despite stopping therapy.
The lactate levels normalized in the 5 surviving patients after stopping this drug, but 1 of the patients had sequelae of blindness and disorientation.
Common (1% to 10%): Elevated BUNUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Elevated creatinine, renal failureFrequency not reported: Exacerbation of renal failure, abnormal renal function, acute interstitial nephritis
Common (1% to 10%): Rash, pruritusUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Urticaria, dermatitis, diaphoresisPostmarketing reports: Bullous skin disorders (such as those described as Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis), angioedema, alopecia
Common (1% to 10%): Vaginal candidiasisUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Vaginitis, polyuria, vulvovaginal disorder
Common (1% to 10%): Fungal infection, candidiasis, fever, localized pain, decreased total protein, decreased albumin, decreased sodium, decreased calcium, increased/decreased potassium, increased/decreased bicarbonateUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Chills, fatigue, increased thirst, increased sodium, increased calcium, increased/decreased chlorideFrequency not reported: Generalized edema
Partially irreversible bilateral optic neuritis has been reported after 41 weeks of therapy.
Several cases of peripheral and/or optic neuropathy have been reported.
The time from the onset of therapy to the first sign of optic neuropathy averaged 10 months (range: 1 to 48 months) in 6 patients with only optic neuropathy.
The time to discontinuation of this drug due to optic neuropathy averaged 11 months (range: 1 to 56 months) after therapy initiation.
This drug was stopped in 12 cases after the development of optic neuropathy; improvement or complete recovery was observed in all cases.
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Blurred visionRare (0.
01% to 0.
1%): Changes in visual field defectFrequency not reported: Partially irreversible bilateral optic neuritisPostmarketing reports: Optic neuropathy (sometimes progressing to loss of vision), optic neuritis, loss of vision, changes in visual acuity, changes in color vision
Common (1% to 10%): HypertensionUncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Arrhythmia (tachycardia), transient ischemic attacks, phlebitis, thrombophlebitisFrequency not reported: Increased and decreased blood pressure, supraventricular tachycardia
Common (1% to 10%): InsomniaFrequency not reported: Confusion
Common (1% to 10%): Elevated creatine phosphokinase
Uncommon (0.
1% to 1%): Injection site pain
Postmarketing reports: Anaphylaxis
Frequency not reported: Interstitial pneumonia
It is possible that some side effects of Zyvox may not have been reported.
These can be reported to the FDA here.
Always consult a healthcare professional for medical advice.
intravenous solution
Chills
confusion
dizziness
fainting
fast heartbeat
fever
lightheadedness
pale skin
rapid, shallow breathing
rash
troubled breathing with exertion
unusual bleeding or bruising
unusual tiredness or weakness
Black, tarry stools
bleeding gums
blood in the urine or stools
bluish lips or skin
body aches or pain
chest pain
congestion
constipation
convulsions
cough
decreased urine
difficult or labored breathing
dry mouth
dryness or soreness of the throat
ear congestion
headache
hoarseness
increased thirst
irregular heartbeat
loss of appetite
loss of voice
mood changes
muscle pain or cramps
nasal congestion
nausea or vomiting
not breathing
numbness or tingling in the hands, feet, or lips
painful or difficult urination
pinpoint red spots on the skin
runny nose
severe stomach pain
shortness of breath
sneezing
sores, ulcers, or white spots on the lips or in the mouth
swollen glands
tender, swollen glands in the neck
tightness in the chest
trouble with swallowing
voice changes
vomiting of blood or material that looks like coffee grounds
wheezing
Abdominal or stomach discomfort
blindness
blistering, peeling, or loosening of the skin
blurred vision
burning, numbness, tingling, or painful sensations
decreased appetite
decreased vision
eye pain
fast, shallow breathing
general feeling of discomfort
high fever
hives
itching
joint pain
large, hive-like swelling on the face, eyelids, lips, tongue, throat, hands, legs, feet, or sex organs
muscle pain or cramping
puffiness or swelling of the eyelids or around the eyes, face, lips, or tongue
red skin lesions, often with a purple center
red, irritated eyes
sleepiness
swollen glands
unexplained bleeding or bruising
unsteadiness or awkwardness
weakness in the arms, hands, legs, or feet
bad, unusual, or unpleasant (after) taste
bleeding, blistering, burning, coldness, discoloration of the skin, feeling of pressure, hives, infection, inflammation, itching, lumps, numbness, pain, rash, redness, scarring, soreness, stinging, swelling, tenderness, tingling, ulceration, or warmth at the injection site
change in taste
discoloration of the tongue
itching of the vagina or outside genitals
loose stools
pain during sexual intercourse
pain in the arms or legs
sleeplessness
sore mouth or tongue
thick, white curd-like vaginal discharge without odor or with mild odor
trouble sleeping
Discoloration of the tooth